QUESTION ID: 848

QUESTION:
I will be building my exhaust from scratch right after the OBD2 headers. After looking and thinking about it, I want to increase the distance that the rear bank gases have to travel. That way the pulses line up evenly when they meet in the Y pipe. I measured a difference of about 6" between banks. I can't claim it's accurate but it's something to work with. So I did some work in a sketching software, first mocking up a factory-style exhaust for a Z3. It merges into this kind of Y pipe before going into the single cat. I've purchased a few pieces of tubing from, funny enough, Amazon. I got 1.75" stainless pipes for the downpipes, with bend radii of 2.75". I'll merge them into a 2.25" pipe at an angle, like the factory system. The cat is also 2.25". The downpipes are spaced out 3". I want to add 6" to the length of the rear bank, which is on the bottom side of the drawing (towards the passenger side). After a few hours of sketching, measuring, and adjusting, I came up with this. Looks kinda stupid, but it works. I can adjust the final shape if I need to, but this will use the least amount of material that I already bought. I'll find out how much room I have once I get the car on the lift. It will likely hang low under the passenger floor, so we'll just wait and see. I'm optimistic! Never seen anything like this. Although, I won't have any way of knowing if it actually works or not. It might sound real smooth, it might not. But either way, it's a logical attempt. What are your thoughts? Side question: I know that the E36 platform has the two precat O2 sensors in the headers, whereas the Z3 has one precat sensor right after the merge. Does anyone know why this is? Does anyone know how this relates to the tuning? Because I assume the sensors are tuned a certain distance away from the ports, so the computer knows when the measurement is in relationship to the combustion. I'm no expert, hence the question. Can anyone elaborate on this? Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 848_0):
Id suggest copying the OEM setup as closely as possible to make the BAR happy. Or maybe consult the Referee you will be dealing with to make sure he is happy with what you plan to build

ANSWER 2 (id: 848_2):
BimmerWorld Track Pipe Midpipe - E30 M50/S50/S52 Swap https://www.bimmerworld.com/Exhaust/Resonators-Mid-Pipes/BimmerWorld-Track-Pipe-Midpipe-E30-M50-S50-S52-Swap.html Bolt-on center section to work with M50 swap using stock manifolds

ANSWER 3 (id: 848_3):
Originally posted by Chilezen Side question: I know that the E36 platform has the two precat O2 sensors in the headers, whereas the Z3 has one precat sensor right after the merge. Does anyone know why this is? Does anyone know how this relates to the tuning? Because I assume the sensors are tuned a certain distance away from the ports, so the computer knows when the measurement is in relationship to the combustion. I'm no expert, hence the question. Can anyone elaborate on this? I actually had no idea the Z3 had only a single sensor in a different location, but moving the O2 sensor up/down the exhaust will affect lambda offset. Basically the delay between combustion happening and the O2 sensor seeing it. Depends on exhaust velocity, so it varies at different loads and RPM. I don't know if the MS41 DME accounts for lambda delay, but nobody seems to have found a table for it. That said, MS41 only uses O2 feedback for closed loop at idle/part throttle where you're close to steady state and it doesn't matter so much. I doubt you'd have any problems from the sensor location. There's also a control bit that you can flip to disable the Bank 2 O2 sensor make the engine use Bank 1 O2 sensor for both banks.

ANSWER 4 (id: 848_4):
Originally posted by moatilliatta https://www.bimmerworld.com/Exhaust/...-S52-Swap.html yep. Bimmerworld did it and I looked at doing it, but there's not a lot of room to actually do it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 848_5):
i would replicate what was done on the s54 then a difference of 6" becomes SFA as the length is greater to the H/Y/X and therefore a less of a proportion