QUESTION ID: 1613

QUESTION:
Hey all, I am completing my list of things to do a manual swap in my '91 iX(airbag) sedan. The last thing I really need is the pedal assembly and I have a couple questions regarding it. Do the pedal assemblies vary between models(is, iX, etc) or are they the same? I read somewhere that I need two clutch switches for the iX, is that true? Does anyone have a comprehensive list of all the necessary parts/instructions needed to complete the swap in one place? That last one is probably a bigger ask and the answer may be RTFM on realoem, but figured I would ask just in case. Thanks for any help in advance!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1613_0):
I just completed converting my sedan (non-airbag) to manual.. it's pretty straight forward. in regards to the two clutch switches I just deleted them as they came on the pedal assembly of the car I took them from along with the rest of its drivetrain. I just swapped the brake switch from the auto pedals on the manual ones.. What you'll exactly need is: - Manual trans and tcase - clutch and flywheel including the clutch slave, master, lines etc.. - shifter assembly, might as well refresh the whole thing while you're at it - the entire center console where the shifter comes through I'm probably missing a thing or two but it's well documented on here. I didn't have to change my brake reservoir either but grabbed the one out of the car I took everything from just incase.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1613_1):
Originally posted by Richie I just completed converting my sedan (non-airbag) to manual.. it's pretty straight forward. in regards to the two clutch switches I just deleted them as they came on the pedal assembly of the car I took them from along with the rest of its drivetrain. I just swapped the brake switch from the auto pedals on the manual ones.. What you'll exactly need is: - Manual trans and tcase - clutch and flywheel including the clutch slave, master, lines etc.. - shifter assembly, might as well refresh the whole thing while you're at it - the entire center console where the shifter comes through I'm probably missing a thing or two but it's well documented on here. I didn't have to change my brake reservoir either but grabbed the one out of the car I took everything from just incase. Thanks for the information Richie. I read that the center console is a different height between the auto and the manual, is that the reason you need one from a manual? I have two as of right now, but they are both from auto cars.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1613_2):
Yes, there are two switches on the clutch. I have two iX manual parts cars if you want pics or anything. I could spare a pedal set with accessories from one for sure. The late "airbag" pedals are thick plate and the early ones are "U" thick sheet metal. I'm not sure if there is any difference otherwise. Sometimes the mounting brackets on auto cars have no nuts welded on for the clutch master. I have simply used nuts and washers instead with success.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1613_3):
Originally posted by Jonathonml Thanks for the information Richie. I read that the center console is a different height between the auto and the manual, is that the reason you need one from a manual? I have two as of right now, but they are both from auto cars. Yes they are different in height but I have seen manual ones with the auto center console still, I just did it to maintain the factory look. Not sure if there is issues or anything like that if you still use the auto center console.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1613_4):
The two clutch switches are for the ABS and cruise control. the ix has "engine brake torque reduction" so you don't lock up your wheels if you lift off the throttle while in gear. The auto center console works just fine with the manual swap. I never bothered to swap out mine. my auto pedal box was 100% identical to one I bought from a manual E30. I ended up just leaving it be and swapping the pedals instead. It shouldn't be necessary to swap out unless you have a non-airbag car.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1613_5):
Originally posted by nando The two clutch switches are for the ABS and cruise control. the ix has "engine brake torque reduction" so you don't lock up your wheels if you lift off the throttle while in gear. The auto center console works just fine with the manual swap. I never bothered to swap out mine. my auto pedal box was 100% identical to one I bought from a manual E30. I ended up just leaving it be and swapping the pedals instead. It shouldn't be necessary to swap out unless you have a non-airbag car. Is there any reason behind having to swap the pedal box when going from airbag to non airbag? My wife and I did the swap this weekend. I did what you did nando, just swapped the pedals. Hers is a JDM spec 88 Auto. Plastic bumper but non airbag. Donor was 90 airbag. Everything went smoothly it seemed. Got concerned about the clutch spring mount not being there on the auto pedal box, but a search showed me it wasn't necessary. And had to unplug the auto computer ignition wire so it would start. Didn't bother with the switches, but now I'm concerned that I need to put those in.