QUESTION ID: 3507

QUESTION:
There are speciality tools/techniques that just make a job exponentially easier than it would normally be. I will start the list. Please feel free to add: always looking to expand my speciality tools, and knowledge base. Job: Replacing rubber brake lines (with OEM or SS) from the trailing arm to the union underneath the rear subframe. Problem: You need to hold the rubber hose from spinning when trying to undo the hard line from the other side, but its nearly inaccessible. Commonly advised course of action that we are trying to not do: remove/drop subframe from vehicle to gain access to the brake union. Speciality tool or technique to avoid aforementioned: 14mm crows foot with 3/8 extension. The hard line is a 11mm nut, while the rubber line is a 14mm nut. Both driver and passenger sides you are able to get a 14mm crows foot on, just barely, to hold the rubber line while you undo the 11mm nut from just in front of the subframe. Proof: Job: Getting half shaft back into rear hub (wheel bearing job, half shaft replacement, etc). Problem: Assuming your hub and half shaft splines are in good condition, the fit is very tight, and does not simply slide in, and the amount that it does slide in does not expose enough thread length to catch with the nut to pull the half shaft in. Commonly advised course of action that we are trying to not do: clean the splines with brass brush, clean hub splines, and if that doesn't work try identifying any burrs. Then magically become religious when you ask god for help when the half shaft still doesn't slide in far enough, and you start using a pry bar between the diff and half shaft. Speciality tool or technique to avoid aforementioned: "Ford Front Hub Installer" M22 x 1.5mm What tool does it that it goes through the tunnel of the hub, grabs on to the half shaft thread, and a socket looking push cylinder pulls the half shaft into the splines as you tighten the nut. Think of it as essentially temporarily extended half shaft threads by 8-10 inches. Literally makes the job COMPLETELY painless, really couldn't be easier. Since old fords are all junked now, these tools can be picked up for very cheap. Can be had for 10-15 bucks. Proof: A broader set that also includes an M24 x 1.5mm (to push front wheel bearing into shaft) is called a "Antriebswellen Einzieher" set or Drive shaft insertion set. Job: Getting out stuck balljoints out of the front strut assembly without destroying boot. Commonly advised course of action that we are trying to not do: Hit the housing with a BFH, or add the nut back on to and hit the nut with a BFH to save the threads, or use a speciality tool (not pickle fork). Speciality tool or technique to avoid aforementioned: Air hammer and blunt tip. The vibrations from the blunt tip will more commonly then not free up seized bolts without causing marring, especially if used from above. More to come later.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3507_1):
This is great thanks for posting. I would love a cool trick or crazy tool to buy to help align the lollipop bracket to the holes in the chassis. That's one thing I dread doing and I'm afraid of cross threading the holes in the chassis.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3507_10):
POWER PROBE http://www.powerprobe.com/ Electrical tools for automotive technicians: Circuit testing and diagnostic tools, tools & accessories This. THE BEST TOOL FOR ELECTRICAL DIAGNOSIS. On a e30. On any car. #Preach You can measure voltage, check grounds, check for power, and then give a circuit power or give it ground. Hooks right to your battery so there is no recharging or swapping out double A's

ANSWER 3 (id: 3507_11):
This set saved my ass on some stripped cap screws when I changed cv axles. 5-pc BOLT-GRIP™ Base Set - Tools - IRWIN TOOLS http://www.irwin.com/tools/screw-bolt-extractors/5-pc-bolt-grip-base-set Worth their weight in gold! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3507_2):
Originally posted by iwantspeed This is great thanks for posting. I would love a cool trick or crazy tool to buy to help align the lollipop bracket to the holes in the chassis. That's one thing I dread doing and I'm afraid of cross threading the holes in the chassis. To not cross thread any bolt on any car (including the lollipop bracket), the thing you want to ALWAYS do is hand tighten the bolt into the hole first, if you feel any significant resistance, stop, undo, and reinsert. It is impossible to cross thread a bolt with your fingers. The problem people get into is that the hole/bolt has some corrosion or debris which is causing enough resistance to not be able to hand tighten the bolt. For the extra cautionary, buy a set of "Thread chasers", they are like thread taps, but are not designed to cut new threads, only clean up existing threads (junk gets forced into the gaps between the threads as you tighten). Never use thread taps as thread chasers. Remember, you are using these chasers on the holes before you place the bracket up to the holes, so you should also be hand threading the chasers in (very easy since you are not trying to line up a component to the holes). Then just lube the bolt thread a little, and with clean and lubed threads you should very easily be able to hand tighten those bolts before wrench tightening.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3507_4):
Originally posted by noid To not cross thread any bolt on any car (including the lollipop bracket), the thing you want to ALWAYS do is hand tighten the bolt into the hole first, if you feel any significant resistance, stop, undo, and reinsert. It is impossible to cross thread a bolt with your fingers. The problem people get into is that the hole/bolt has some corrosion or debris which is causing enough resistance to not be able to hand tighten the bolt. For the extra cautionary, buy a set of "Thread chasers", they are like thread taps, but are not designed to cut new threads, only clean up existing threads (junk gets forced into the gaps between the threads as you tighten). Never use thread taps as thread chasers. Remember, you are using these chasers on the holes before you place the bracket up to the holes, so you should also be hand threading the chasers in (very easy since you are not trying to line up a component to the holes). Then just lube the bolt thread a little, and with clean and lubed threads you should very easily be able to hand tighten those bolts before wrench tightening. I will add, another trick as well, is to thread it backward at first. You'll feel the lead of the thread on the bolt "drop" when it passes over the lead thread in the nut. Something I picked up years ago, and is now just habit - usually just a quarter to half turn help seat it. Really helpful if you have some dodgy threads. Also, I will add either a tiny Allen wrench, or get a length of Brass rod and curve it to use when adjusting the valves. Will take a picture of mine when I get home.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3507_5):
Originally posted by djjerme I will add, another trick as well, is to thread it backward at first. You'll feel the lead of the thread on the bolt "drop" when it passes over the lead thread in the nut. Something I picked up years ago, and is now just habit - usually just a quarter to half turn help seat it. Really helpful if you have some dodgy threads. Also, I will add either a tiny Allen wrench, or get a length of Brass rod and curve it to use when adjusting the valves. Will take a picture of mine when I get home. I tend to use a allen wrench. There is a speciality tool that SIR makes for adjusting the valves on the m10/m20/m30, which is spring loaded to get the same tightness across the board. SIR 3013:

ANSWER 7 (id: 3507_6):
Thread chasers are invaluable. I'd buy a set that includes both male/bolt type and female/nut type ones. I can't recall how many times my craftsman set has saved my ass. If a bolt comes out and it looks any bit corroded or it has problems threading in, both the hole and the bolt get pb blasted and chased. It also makes disassembly in the future so much easier.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3507_7):
Originally posted by Kershaw Thread chasers are invaluable. I'd buy a set that includes both male/bolt type and female/nut type ones. I can't recall how many times my craftsman set has saved my ass. If a bolt comes out and it looks any bit corroded or it has problems threading in, both the hole and the bolt get pb blasted and chased. It also makes disassembly in the future so much easier. You have the Craftsman thread chaser or the restorer kit that goes on big discount frequently? I want the latter but believe I need more of a cleaner kit than a restoring kit... And it is $50 now ... may buy it. http://www.craftsman.com/craftsman-48-pc-sae-metric-thread-restorer-kit/p-00942275000P

ANSWER 9 (id: 3507_8):
Another protip on the chasers, if you are working on something and you don't have chasers, can easily make your own by cutting a few slots on a new or good used bolt, does the same job as the commercial units. I have a few different sizes in my hardware bin.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3507_9):
I eventually bought one of the ford half shaft yanking tools but prior to that used this Crude but effective And after almost killing myself removing springs with the POS HF tool, I bought this puppy