QUESTION ID: 1285

QUESTION:
Need to replace the original top on my 87. Went to 5 shops today, basically got 5 different answers. Looks like the two popular brands of tops are Electron and Gahh. Any one have opinions or experience with either brand? And, my top is beige or tan. Looks like that costs more, as black is the default. I see the same prices listed in their catalogs as the shops were quoting. Apparently the markup is already built in? Any experience on what color to order if I want close to the original color? I’ve seen some replacements the look too orange or like peanut butter, and would not match the “pearl beige” of my interior. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1285_0):
I replaced my top with one from AutoTopsDirect.com and couldn't be happier. I opted for the tension straps tool. The material feels premium and is OEM quality, if not better cause I opted for the twillfast material option. My roof is black, so I can't speak to the tan color options, but I remember looking at them and they looked great IMO. Hope this helps. Sent from my Moto Z3 Play using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1285_1):
Originally posted by Sm_simpson Need to replace the original top on my 87. Went to 5 shops today, basically got 5 different answers. Looks like the two popular brands of tops are Electron and Gahh. Any one have opinions or experience with either brand? And, my top is beige or tan. Looks like that costs more, as black is the default. I see the same prices listed in their catalogs as the shops were quoting. Apparently the markup is already built in? Any experience on what color to order if I want close to the original color? I’ve seen some replacements the look too orange or like peanut butter, and would not match the “pearl beige” of my interior. Thanks. I bought the Auto Tops Direct brand in Stayfast Canvas, from Sierra Auto Tops on Amazon. It fits really well, and was pretty straightforward to install. I also added new tension straps while I was in there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1285_2):
I had Gahh installed. They have different levels and the one recommended to me had German in the description or name. It was on the higher end side and have the factory like markings on the inside checks or x’s. I don’t recall at the moment. I had the exact same issue with my original top being tan. I could t find a match and decided to do navy. My e30 is white with pearle beige interior. The combo looks great IMO. Good luck. I also recommend doing the tensioner straps. Now is the time to do them. My too now closes perfectly. New top makes a world of difference. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk