QUESTION ID: 1862

QUESTION:
I've read online that one of the best ways to kill odors in your car, or anywhere for that matter, is with an ozone generator. A lot of recommendations online, but also a lot of warnings about ozone causing damage to plastic/ leather / rubber/ vinyl if exposed for too long. It seems if done with caution, it can be a great method of freshening up the cabin. Anyone here who's tried and can speak on their experience and / or share some tips for success? cheers

ANSWER 1 (id: 1862_0):
I grabbed this cheapy on amazon and have used it on a few cars so far. e30, f350, defender and even my motorhome. It's worked great. It hasn't completely eliminated the smell but I'd say in each case it gets cut to maybe 25% of the original scent. One of the shops I used to sell parts to did it to tons of customer cars. Really helps when scents are stuck in the headliners.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1862_1):
Originally posted by iansane I grabbed this cheapy on amazon and have used it on a few cars so far. e30, f350, defender and even my motorhome. It's worked great. It hasn't completely eliminated the smell but I'd say in each case it gets cut to maybe 25% of the original scent. One of the shops I used to sell parts to did it to tons of customer cars. Really helps when scents are stuck in the headliners. Ha I was going to buy that exact unit last night but had to go with a different option because that one doesn’t ship to California. Could you share how long you let it run each time, and how frequently you used it?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1862_10):
I was fearful of damaging plastics too, but I used this one in an E39 and it worked great. What worked best for me was balancing the unit in a window with the intake pulling from outside the car and have the blower motor running with all the vents open. Ran it for 30minutes, but then let the car set overnight without opening any doors/windows. ... Also worked well on carpet. Rolled up some carpet and created a little enclosure with drop cloth plastic and let it run for 20-30min.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1862_11):
one night i took my e30 to get groceries, and i purchased a smattering of provisions. naturally, the drive home was spirited. upon arriving back home, i opened the trunk to find my groceries had spilled out from the bags and were strewn about. classic. but, not problem! this was a sight i was used to by this point! heaven forbid secure the bags, or drive reasonably.. i gathered my belongings and closed the trunk, forgetting all about it. early the next morning i caught a flight and returned home a little over a week later. when i went out to the car, i smelt something that could only resemble that of my ex girlfriend. once i opened the door, the overwhelming smell of rotting shellfish greeted my nostrils. i tried to sit in it for a moment and ponder what on earth could cause this, but could only last a few seconds. the smell was thick, and unbearable. my memory immediately flashbacked to the groceries in the trunk. my heart dropped. my excitement for a few hairpin turns and an empty freeway had failed me. i discovered a pound of shrimp had gotten wedged underneath the large ikea bag i keep back there (filled with oil, belts, etc). panic set in.. how on earth could this smell not ruin the upholstery? the only think product that allowed me to even drive the thing yet alone completely cleanse the smell was Odoban. it took about 4-6 months to completely rid the smell. i sprayed it in the trunk and in the cabin once a day. used maybe two of the normal sized bottles. an ozone generator may have been crucial for me, but i wasn't privy to this tech.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1862_2):
I've never tried Ozone, but I'd suggest to stay away from of of those "Auto Shocker" Chlorine treatments. Had one go off like a bomb in my M3. The explosion set off the factory car alarm and alerted me to the problem after I was already inside the house. Interior would have probably been ruined if the alarm didn't go off.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1862_3):
Originally posted by cumwizard13 Ha I was going to buy that exact unit last night but had to go with a different option because that one doesn’t ship to California. Could you share how long you let it run each time, and how frequently you used it? My f350 and defender stunk something fierce. Both of those I let run for several hours two or three times. My LSe30 only needed a single 2 hour stint.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1862_4):
Yes, ozone generators do seem to work, have used one on my work truck with some success. In that case, 2x 45 minute sessions. I'd say start with less time and move up, also don't plan to drive the vehicle the next day.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1862_5):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Yes, ozone generators do seem to work, have used one on my work truck with some success. In that case, 2x 45 minute sessions. I'd say start with less time and move up, also don't plan to drive the vehicle the next day. thanks i think i'll take your advice and start with 45 mins

ANSWER 9 (id: 1862_6):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Yes, ozone generators do seem to work, have used one on my work truck with some success. In that case, 2x 45 minute sessions. I'd say start with less time and move up, also don't plan to drive the vehicle the next day. This is the way. Start small and build. Hard to undo things once they're over-done.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1862_9):
The Mothers Odor Eliminators work really well. I've used them in my Vanagon that I use for mountain biking trips and it really removes the sweaty stank.