QUESTION ID: 2524

QUESTION:
Tried rebuilding my Behr Bosch wingcell compressor with new R134a seals. When the shop tried charging my AC they said the compressor was pissing refrigerant and that I need a new compressor. An OEM rebuilt compressor is almost $1200 but there are rebuilds in the $300-400 range by Omega and 4 Seasons on ECSTuning. I'm also seeing 4 Seasons rebuilds on Rockauto. Anyone running these aftermarket compressors or have experience with these brands? Are they reliable or am I playing Russian roulette with my money?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2524_0):
Well, you can do the whole project twice for what an OEM one costs, and 4 Seasons isn't absolute trash, but they are a downmarket brand. Know nothing of Omega as a brand for car parts. but I hope they advertise with a slogan similar to "The last parts your car will ever need."

ANSWER 2 (id: 2524_1):
Originally posted by ZeKahr Tried rebuilding my Behr Bosch wingcell compressor with new R134a seals. When the shop tried charging my AC they said the compressor was pissing refrigerant and that I need a new compressor. An OEM rebuilt compressor is almost $1200 but there are rebuilds in the $300-400 range by Omega and 4 Seasons on ECSTuning. I'm also seeing 4 Seasons rebuilds on Rockauto. Anyone running these aftermarket compressors or have experience with these brands? Are they reliable or am I playing Russian roulette with my money? It's funny you posted this, I was going yo ask the same question. Any help would would be great. It is too damn hot to be running around with no AC. I am going to pull the trigger on the Omega BTW.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2524_3):
Bought a 4 seasons ND unit once. Lasted 3 months, zero warranty support from 4 seasons.... never again.... started rebuilding my Seiko Seki units instead. Ackits out in Arizona and polarbearinc out of Florida for all my orings, carbon seals, and bearing needs.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2524_4):
Originally posted by uturn Bought a 4 seasons ND unit once. Lasted 3 months, zero warranty support from 4 seasons.... never again.... started rebuilding my Seiko Seki units instead. Ackits out in Arizona and polarbearinc out of Florida for all my orings, carbon seals, and bearing needs. Do you have the part numbers for the Seiko Seiki SS-811PB3 compressor? Is it similar to the Seiko Seiki SS170pss?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2524_5):
the problem with most of the reman air con compressors (Four Seasons, etc), is that they will only install 3 or 4 of the 7 seals on the shaft. they just don't last... there is a fella on mye28.com, that offers a rebuild service, for old BMW air con compressors, power steering pumps, et al. you may reach out to him, and see if he is doing them currently. his handle is: "JCS", here is a link to the thread: https://www.mye28.com/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=142973

ANSWER 6 (id: 2524_6):
Thanks for the input all. Decided that I'm going to ship my compressor over to Jay from the MyE28 and BigCoupe forums to rebuild. His work appears very high quality esp for the price he's charging for a rebuild and our phone conversation indicated to me that he is intimately familiar with rebuilding these old wingcell compressors, so I'll give his rebuild service a go. To anyone else who wants to reach out to him for a compressor rebuild, he is currently having issues with his email so you'll want to reach out to him via phone.