QUESTION ID: 2293

QUESTION:
Took an Mtech 1 fiberglass body kit in a trade for some wheels the other day & couldn’t take the e30 because it doesn’t run currently. Didn’t realize the kit was only for euro bumpers. Not sure where the kit is from but it’s fairly nice but isn’t going to just mount up correctly to my early model. Would I be able to take it to a body shop (I don’t trust myself to do it) & they could make it fit? It looks like it just need the top bumper portion cut. Don’t really want to spend the money on euro conversion so if you guys don’t think it’s a good idea I’ll just pass the kit along if I can

ANSWER 1 (id: 2293_0):
Well we put a man on the moon, so im sure someone can modify it to suit. But it might cost you as much as just buying some euro bars. And if you do modify it, you cant sell it as an Mtech kit anymore. It's now a hacked up mtech 1 kit.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2293_1):
Hey if that kit is for a convertible and you decide to part ways with it, please email me back I have been looing for a fiberglass set for for euro bumpers. Thanks, Geoff.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2293_2):
Get euro bumpers and put the kit on, otherwise sell it. It's specifically designed for euro bumpers, mounts over the top of them and secured under the trim. There's no way you can do that with US diving board bumpers. Completely different.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2293_3):
If you're worried about buying euro bumpers you'll be even more concerned about the cost to make a fiberglass Mtech fit the car properly with the right bumpers let alone the wrong ones.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2293_4):
You'd also need a euro front valance to make it look correct, or you'd end up with visible holes in the valance which the US bumpers cover but the Euro ones do not.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2293_5):
Originally posted by e30davie Well we put a man on the moon, so im sure someone can modify it to suit. But it might cost you as much as just buying some euro bars. And if you do modify it, you cant sell it as an Mtech kit anymore. It's now a hacked up mtech 1 kit. or maybe we never made it to the moon or just made it appear like we did? Cold war ended shortly thereafter. Just saying....