QUESTION ID: 1972

QUESTION:
Hello I’m new here so sorry If I’m messing up but I picked these up yesterday for 440$ apparently they came off a vert m tech that’s what I was told. He only had 3 paint looks oem white with polished lips. He did give me a different one but it is silver and not stamped “made in Germany” i don’t know anything about these rims I just got my e30 a few weeks ago. 3 of the caps are metal and 1 is plastic why is that ? Anyone have the 1 rim I’m missing ? Or know where I can buy if. paint looks original white if that’s the case I kinda don’t want to repaint them but then again I do have a white 325e with white rims idk idk. Anyways any info / help is appreciated. where can I get caps that say “bbs” instead of BMW logo?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1972_0):
they did a couple of versions, full silver and and dark grey with a polished lip. Maybe in your region weiss was an option, unsure. I would say someone damaged a wheel and couldn't find a polished version to replace it (they're rare) In any case your painted version is genuine. The caps look correct. There should be a 7 digit part number stamped into the wheel and cap which should be specific to the colour. Add 3611 to the front of the 7 digit number and thats the full BMW AG number. are they the same width? ​

ANSWER 2 (id: 1972_1):
you got 3 stock e30 basket weaves and one fakie. the originals all would have come with metal caps and bmw logos. the fakie would be the one with the plastic. no idea on that. your best bet for bbs logos is gonna be stickers off ebay.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1972_2):
Originally posted by bangn they did a couple of versions, full silver and and dark grey with a polished lip. Maybe in your region weiss was an option, unsure. I would say someone damaged a wheel and couldn't find a polished version to replace it (they're rare) In any case your painted version is genuine. The caps look correct. There should be a 7 digit part number stamped into the wheel and cap which should be specific to the colour. Add 3611 to the front of the 7 digit number and thats the full BMW AG number. are they the same width? ​ i see yes i have 3 of the same white polished lips but have only 1 matching white metal cap then have 2 metal caps but silver then 1 plastic cap all stamped w. "Germany"

ANSWER 4 (id: 1972_3):
Originally posted by E30 Xskyshi i see yes i have 3 of the same white polished lips but have only 1 matching white metal cap then have 2 metal caps but silver then 1 plastic cap all stamped w. "Germany" will they all fit and lock in the wheels ? the white ones would have been original to the mtech. the last one sounds like it's a standard e30 rim. probably not a fakie. the metal caps are standard e30 bmw caps. no idea on what is up with a plastic cap.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1972_4):
Originally posted by 82eye will they all fit and lock in the wheels ? the white ones would have been original to the mtech. the last one sounds like it's a standard e30 rim. probably not a fakie. the metal caps are standard e30 bmw caps. no idea on what is up with a plastic cap. yes they lock into wheels i was told from the seller that they where off a vert m tech e30 picked these up yesterday at first i thought that they where painted but when i went to see them in person they defiantly professorially done if they are real m tech rims i kinda don't want to paint them

ANSWER 6 (id: 1972_5):
Originally posted by E30 Xskyshi yes they lock into wheels i was told from the seller that they where off a vert m tech e30 picked these up yesterday at first i thought that they where painted but when i went to see them in person they defiantly professorially done if they are real m tech rims i kinda don't want to paint them i wouldn't worry about it. loads of guys painted the centers and polished the lips. that's all it is. you can do whatever you want. check the back side of the rims themselves and not just the caps for identification.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1972_6):
Originally posted by E30 Xskyshi i see yes i have 3 of the same white polished lips but have only 1 matching white metal cap then have 2 metal caps but silver then 1 plastic cap all stamped w. "Germany" If they have the 7 digit part number, they're genuine

ANSWER 8 (id: 1972_7):
Of my old collection of 14" weaves, all dated '88 to '91, I think there were at least 3 different manufacturers so I assumed BBS wasn't the only supplier to BMW. In fact I want to say that none of the early weaves I had were by BBS, but could be wrong. I remember that "Alusomething" brand that you have pictured, and then one I think by a "Lemmers"?

ANSWER 9 (id: 1972_8):
+1 to other manufacturers beyond BBS. They are all OEM to BMW for 'basketweaves' - BBS, Lemmers and 1x more I can't recall right now. Unless you're a hardcore basketweave aficionado with OCD tendencies, you can get away with having different BMW OE basketweaves made by different OEM manufacturers, so long as they are the same size/offset. Once the centrecap is on 99.5% of people can't tell the difference. I haven't seen any cross-brand comparison on weights & strengths for the same size basketweave. e.g. BBS are 'x' lbs & Lemmers are 'y' lbs But lots of threads on the interwebs that BMW OE basketweaves made by BBS are 'stronger'... Regarding the all-plastic centre cap, yes these are non OE.