QUESTION ID: 2828

QUESTION:
So, I went and got an E30. No surprise there as I have always wanted an E30, but whatever thing or situation stood in the way, I was never able to get one. My childhood was full of the wonderment that was the E30. I started driving (legally) in 1987. We were a car family. We even had two family friends that were car racers and my father a drag racer. The BMW was always at the top of my list of cars I wanted. They were small, very Euro and very cool!!! Fast forward to a couple of months ago and I found an 85 325E. She wasn't the "i" or "is" model i desired, but I had limited funds and honestly, sorta dug the four doors. Always have... I grab ol' girl for a good price and knew she had some issues. Rear shocks had blown top bushings, oil pan was leaking and she has a small water leak somewhere. I decide that well, if I am going to replace the shocks, I might as well dive right in and do everything... I look over the Garagistic website and immediately order Poly bushing kit, shock top brace, and stainless steel brake lines. I then find the magical site BimmerWorld and order front top mounts, rear Power Flex tops with bushings and HD engine and transmission mounts. I then decide that I need shocks and springs. So, I get some adjustable Konis and H&R race springs. Yesterday, I decided to dive right in. Pulled the rear down, replaced the bushings, brake lines and raised the subframe. What a treat! Bushing rods broke off up inside the body mount area, all the rubber bushings were a devil to remove and the axles were a breeze to remove (NOT!). I also came across the passenger side rear wheel bearing is bad and pads are shot. After several hours and a lot of new curse words, I got her assembled and lifted into place. Now, the front. Today was remove the front subframe and prepare for the oil pan gasket. Everything came off pretty much as it should. I will do the lines and have a set of offset polys for the front. Just need to know how to alogn them before I put them in so, if anyone has some insight, I am all ears! I love this thing. She frustrates me, but it will be well worth it once I turn the wheels. Next up are powder coated IX wheels, color correction on the body and source that pesty water leak...

ANSWER 1 (id: 2828_0):
Lol, I’m not a long time person here but I’ll go ahead and say “yo, nice car”. I was 16 in 1986, my dad had an e28 535i manual that I drove to both proms. I’m on my 3rd e30 and I got my son (16) a 325e coupe. I have a nice 325i sedan. I’d bet the water leak is the head outlet that goes to the heater core. Can’t get it unless you remove the intake manifold, which means gaskets for thermostat housing, intake, and all the coolant hoses. Don’t forget the o rings for the bitch tube, and learn how to do the tube with zip ties. Go ahead and get fuel injector o rings, clean the injectors and intake, replace vacuum lines and intake boot. So it wouldn’t hurt to do the timing belt, water pump, belts, plugs,wires, dist cap and rotor, and coil. Then change the oil after you’ve cleaned everything up. It’s a start but they’re among the best true analog cars ever made. (As you know). The fuel injection and cruise control are awesome with their computer logic, but everything else is wonderfully made.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2828_1):
And, i have to say, my ‘89 325i sedan is a beaut, but I haven’t touched the suspension yet. I have the Ireland engineering 22mm front sway and am looking for the h&r oe sport springs and the right koni/bilstein struts and shocks. I’m not going to tear apart the subframes until I have enough stuff to replace with. Nice job to you for hitting that first. I dove into the engine bay on my 2 e30’s and while enjoying many miles, I am anxiously working toward sorting the “business end”.