QUESTION ID: 822

QUESTION:
Put this DIY together today, since I wasn't to pleased with the existing guides. E30 Rear subframe and subframe bushing removal and install | RTS - Your Total BMW Enthusiast http://www.rtsauto.com/e30-rear-subframe-and-subframe-bushing-removal-and-install/ This guide assumes you are not using the below tool; as the the tool allows for the removal and installation of the rear subframe bushing without needing to drop the rear subframe (but works just as well if you do). https://www.rtsauto.com/e30-rear-subframe-bushing-tool-for-removal-and-install/ Supplementary guide for trailing arm bushings: https://www.rtsauto.com/the-easy-way-to-remove-and-install-e30-trailing-arm-bushings/ This is a step by step

ANSWER 1 (id: 822_1):
Originally posted by noid Put this DIY together today, since I wasn't to pleased with the existing guides. http://www.rtsauto.com/e30-rear-subf...l-and-install/ Thanks noid for the great DIY! Very helpful instructions and clear photos. I'm about to take on this same project, possibly as early as this weekend. I've got a set of AKG performance/street urethane subframe bushings ready to go, but since I'll have the whole subframe out, I decided to replace the RTABs and diff mount as well. The one aspect of this project that has me concerned is the removal of the old subframe bushings. This is my first time tackling this kind of repair, so I must admit the diagram of your home made press is a little unclear to me. Do you possibly have any photos of it? I don't own a vice and really don't' want to spend the money on one at this time (if I don't have to), so also wondered if you have any other strategies for removing the bushings?

ANSWER 2 (id: 822_10):
Another method for removing one stuck side: Such a lil B, but I avoided crushing the hard line. Front jack wheel on the subframe cross member. Wood hit the boxy area of the body. Rear of the jack on blocks. The lag bolt, for me, kept falling out when pounding it down from the top, and cracked the aluminum inner sleeve of the bushing when I tried to thread it in further.

ANSWER 3 (id: 822_11):
Originally posted by eduTechnic Another method for removing one stuck side: Such a lil B, but I avoided crushing the hard line. Front jack wheel on the subframe cross member. Wood hit the boxy area of the body. Rear of the jack on blocks. The lag bolt, for me, kept falling out when pounding it down from the top, and cracked the aluminum inner sleeve of the bushing when I tried to thread it in further. ^^^lol

ANSWER 4 (id: 822_2):
Great DIY! If I decide to tackle this project on my own I will definatly be usimg this. I'm still leaning to having a shop do it but with this write up I may be able to tackle it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 822_3):
Originally posted by KAR Thanks noid for the great DIY! Very helpful instructions and clear photos. I'm about to take on this same project, possibly as early as this weekend. I've got a set of AKG performance/street urethane subframe bushings ready to go, but since I'll have the whole subframe out, I decided to replace the RTABs and diff mount as well. The one aspect of this project that has me concerned is the removal of the old subframe bushings. This is my first time tackling this kind of repair, so I must admit the diagram of your home made press is a little unclear to me. Do you possibly have any photos of it? I don't own a vice and really don't' want to spend the money on one at this time (if I don't have to), so also wondered if you have any other strategies for removing the bushings? I would recommend investing in a vise, it is hands down the best tool I have bought myself. I don't even know how I ever lived without one. I recommend getting as heavy duty as you can, I have used my vise in place of a press many times and it has worked like a champ. I have a rigid f60 which is forged and can handle an advertised 75,000 psi of pressure, so it can handle anything I need to do on an E30 in terms of pressing stuff in and out. New the industrial grade vises are expensive but you can usually find them used for under $100 on craigslist or similar. Any decent non industrial vise should be able to press in/out both the rear subframe bushings and trailing arm bushings. I would recommend an industrial sized vise for the diff mount and front control arms (if you ever do those). Without a vise you can burn the subframe bushings out which will leave a metal sleeve that you can cut out with a sawzall. Use a MAPP torch not a propane torch to do it, it works X100 faster and MAPP gas is readily available and as cheap as propane, just make sure to get the appropriate trigger. A vise makes it painless to push a new OEM bushing in. Most aftermarket bushings go in by hand. You dont really need a vise for the rear trailing arm bushings. I covered that process here: The easy way to remove and install E30 trailing arm bushings | RTS - Your Total BMW Enthusiast http://www.rtsauto.com/the-easy-way-to-remove-and-install-e30-trailing-arm-bushings/ My way is not only faster then most traditional ways, but its also makes the trailing arm bushing come out without much resistance. Things you will need: 30mm socket Bigger C-clamp or PREFERABLY a vise Box cutter KY lube (not required, but if you have it I recommend using it) First Cut off the Replace the Vise with a large enough C-clamp and you are set. I don't have a picture of the setup on the vise mainly because I was wrangling the subframe myself, so I had no hands for a camera. However, it is fairly easy. You place the subframe in the vise, and on one side of the bushing you put a 1 1/2 pipe, and on the other end you put two normal sockets on the tip on the subframe tube. When you start closing the jaws of the vise the pipe will go into the subframe tube pushing the bushing out in between the sockets.

ANSWER 6 (id: 822_5):
Is there anyway to do this without dropping the entire rear subframe? Also, are there any other jobs worth doing "while in there"? BTW - What is recommended for the new bushings? OEM? Poly? Just curious.

ANSWER 7 (id: 822_6):
Originally posted by noid Put this DIY together today, since I wasn't to pleased with the existing guides. http://www.rtsauto.com/e30-rear-subf...l-and-install/ Dude, this looks EPIC! Thanks for taking the time to put this together! :up:

ANSWER 8 (id: 822_7):
This is a nice guide but its way easier to do it with the sir tools master kit I have no need to remove anything and you can be done in an hr or so for both sides if not less and my rental only costs 55 just an fyi