QUESTION ID: 1868

QUESTION:
I am in need of an aftermarket fuel tank - anyone have a brand / or vendor preference - or bad experience with brand / vendor? Im not going to buy used (had previous issues not disclosed and private sellers are not always easy to deal with on returns). I will not buy BMW brand either. Its going into a 91 325i - Its the 16 gallon I believe.. Ebay waarehouse sellers? Rock auto? Other? any guidance appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1868_11):
Originally posted by 95BMWIC Love the exhaust wrap look - does that help heat wise? Yes it does help. I don't have the heat shields for the fuel tank anymore (originals rusted away). I use it on my motorcycle as well to keep the heat off my boot. Note that if you drive the car in the rain a lot, the wrap will trap moisture and rust out the exhaust pipe. Better to have it ceramic coated in that case.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1868_2):
I’ve had the Spectra BM1A in my earlier 318i for 5 years now and no problems. Only issue with the install was I had to grind one of the mounting holes to get it to line up. Others have also reported this issue. Be aware the Spectra tanks do not have a drain plug.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1868_3):
Ok - I see RA has em.. On another note - any issues on the rusty nuts coming out? I cant use a torch :) .. any hints on prep - PB blast them all a few weeks in a row?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1868_6):
Originally posted by MR 325 Spectra BM1B is what you'd want. The quality on these isn't bad from my experience. This is what I put in 5 years ago, still going strong. I repainted it to match OEM. The only thing its missing is a drain screw, but hopefully, you never have to drain it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1868_7):
SPECTRA BM1B Ordered Rock Auto - $233.79 Fuel Tank came in gloss grey - I painted Black - then 3M undercoated and installed. Good sturdy unit - no fitment issues. I pulled full exhaust to install If I had to do again - advise ordering the rubber grommets for the tank and driveshaft nut and rubber insert - and then replace CSB and trans mounts (while in there). New filter and hoses all around. Thank you for the comments.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1868_9):
I've heard the silver finish doesn't hold up on these tanks and starts to rust. I coated mine with brushed on Rustoleum black paint before I installed. Used a fuel tank joining hose I sourced from http://www.specialclassicparts.de/. After exchange and shipping, it was half the price of the OEM piece. This was in 2018 though, so there may be better options now. And this pic from 2022 (4 years later), seems to be holding up okay! Although truth be told I don't drive my E30 as much as I should.