QUESTION ID: 2773

QUESTION:
Good afternoon all, I am the owner of a 91 318is that was a solid and clean daily. Car had an extremely clean chassis but not the best paint (highschool kid owned the car before me and had it painted cheaply). Car was perfect candidate to get me through my daily needs until I graduated and then be turned into a long term restoration project. Unfortunately the deer I met the other day had other plans and now I'm looking to get screwed from insurance on total. The car has ~180k miles on it, zero rust, extremely clean panels (other than the newly damaged hood, fender, and radiator support), and was mechanically sound with everything working and driving great. Interior was a solid 7/10 with typical cracks in the dash and the drivers seat but the rest of the interior was great and clean. I'm looking for comparable is's with similar mileage to fight them with that have been either sold or purchased recently. Hoping you guys can come through, my insurance guy was doing me a solid and knows the value they have me at is a joke but it is very hard to find these cars that are in good shape and not either rust buckets or trailer queens. Naturally the BAT cars are going for $13K plus and the crap ones are going for $3K down. Hoping you guys can help me find the solid DD's and get a good idea on the values so I can get what this car is worth. Thanks ahead of time for your help!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2773_3):
More fun stuff here...the salvage value that they have it at is only $1,000 less than what they want to give me for the car. So there value minus the salvage yard estimate leaves me with about $1,000 to keep the car, which is ridiculous. Matt-B this was more aimed at people who may have recently sold stuff or purchased and would be willing to help out. I am scouring the web for these with about 10 people already contacted from the for-sale section here with one reply so far. 99% of the stuff out there is either borderline parts car or a trailer queen.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2773_4):
I'll share a nice tool I use to track values over time. Clearly you won't be able to see pics of many of the cars, but it will give you a large pool of info to pull from. https://cargraph.com/usa/bmw/318is/1991

ANSWER 3 (id: 2773_5):
This is pretty standard. It took me a good few months, some patience and the help of some good friends to get something reasonable out of State Farm for my totaled 1991 318i with 265K miles. Hint: it was a lot better than $1,000 so keep your chin up but be persistent and cunning about it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2773_6):
I had a 318 totaled coincidentally also in Charlotte. Mine was an 84 m10 car that I owned for a very long time...nice car but nothing to write home about and not an OS. I got $3k from her insurance company after deducting the buyback...and that was 5 years ago. $1000 is an insult