QUESTION ID: 1899

QUESTION:
Not sure if everyone would agree with his numbers but it is nice to see someone be transparent about the costs of their builds including what they got for free https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHkDMDwoafI

ANSWER 1 (id: 1899_0):
What's the TL;DR on that one? I have trouble watching his videos at any length. I could have a (nearly) new 'vette for what I've spent on my E30 over the past ten years. But I don't have any regrets, and it's truly been a passion project for me so 🤷‍♂️. I'll never sell it and there are far worse things you could waste your money on.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1899_10):
Honestly I really enjoyed the Ferrari series but fell behind rapidly and I'm still only somewhere around the time it comes off the frame dolly and onto stands. I watched the first e30 episode (and just watched the one in the OP now) but haven't watched the rest yet. I find the format of Mike's videos works well for me. I get that some people might find there's too much talk, but I really think it would be impossible to cut that down and keep context and decision rationale. But yeah, last time I added up my costs was right after the 24v swap, and that was $25k. Before everything turbo related, a few sets of wheels, tires, seats, 4-clutch 2.93, and who knows what else...

ANSWER 3 (id: 1899_11):
I think the numbers line up. Makes me glad I did my s50 swap 10 years ago though. Prices have definitely gone up. As others have said, I really do appreciate the transparency. I've always been curious about the breakdown between out of pocket costs vs. sponsored free/discount costs. This makes it clear that while YouTube builds do get a nice discount, there is still a pretty considerable amount of out of pocket expenses.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1899_12):
Originally posted by SpasticDwarf I'd love some feedback if you have any :) Damn, I didn't realize you were on r3v. In retrospect, it makes sense, although mye28 seems like it would be more you speed. I thought it was a good video and pretty fair in pricing. It's crazy to think that the "retail price" of the car would be $40k and would probably sell on BaT for your $20k "in the industry price". Its also crazy to think that labor on that is worth $18k when I don't count the time spent working on my car as having "value". I've been piecing together a turbo build since 2020 and will probably start wrenching on it this coming winter. I suppose one of the things you left out is the countless hours researching and learning how to do something new. I soldered a MS2 for my car during covid. Thankfully I documented everything as best as I could, because I've forgotten all of it by now. So I'm going to have to read through my old threads to figure out what my plan was and how to make this thing work.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1899_13):
Originally posted by SpasticDwarf I'd love some feedback if you have any :) Thanks for the love! It was a weird one to do, but it is what it is. ​ It's just a name. :) Although joining this forum at like... 16 years old... didn't do me any favors for imbuing a sense of maturity.🤣 Love your videos man, of course you'd be on here, lol. You ask for feedback? Don't change a thing, keep the originality, keep the honesty, just keep doing what your doing, its absolutely working. ​​​​​​​

ANSWER 6 (id: 1899_2):
Appreciate Mike doing a video like this. I haven't added costs on my project and don't intend to until it's time for the insurance appraisal. Panici , well put, no regrets, just wish it was done! I enjoy putting his videos on in the background as I'm working in the shop.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1899_3):
DOUBLE it if you're have a shop doing the work. I didn't see much of restoration work done. Fuel lines, fuel tank, brake hose, lines, all the fun stuff and headaches... I think I'd like Mike Burroughs more than the stanceworks culture. Took me a while to split the two, I think his youtube channel has helped with this. ​

ANSWER 8 (id: 1899_4):
Originally posted by Panici What's the TL;DR on that one? I have trouble watching his videos at any length. His cost was under $20k, 'Retail' was more than double that. A key piece he points out, that I always find hard to stomach is that when you build it yourself, and don't add up the costs ... they creep up big time. I'm already at stupid money in my little 996, but its a car I love and most of the work has been with my hands, only bringing in experts when I don't have the skills or time. The PO of my car paid a shop to do all his work and his receipts (not including the car itself) totalled more than I bought the car for. Paying a shop and constantly just swiping the card/ writing a check can take a lot of the fun out of things when you end up spending $50k on an E30 thats worth maybe half that...

ANSWER 9 (id: 1899_5):
Originally posted by Panici What's the TL;DR on that one? I have trouble watching his videos at any length. I'd love some feedback if you have any :) Originally posted by AceAndrew777 Appreciate Mike doing a video like this. I haven't added costs on my project and don't intend to until it's time for the insurance appraisal.. Thanks for the love! It was a weird one to do, but it is what it is. ​ ​​​​​​​ Originally posted by moatilliatta I think I'd like Mike Burroughs more than the stanceworks culture. Took me a while to split the two, I think his youtube channel has helped with this. ​ It's just a name. :) Although joining this forum at like... 16 years old... didn't do me any favors for imbuing a sense of maturity.🤣

ANSWER 10 (id: 1899_6):
Originally posted by SpasticDwarf I'd love some feedback if you have any :) Personally, I like the videos. They do feel like they run a little long, but I dont mind. I appreciate the effort you put into it. I wasn't a fan originally, but Im a subscriber and was stoked to see the Ferrari actually make it to the track and not be a static racecar-boi thing... hope to see it at the track one of these days. Give Byron and Khalil a big group hug from me -Simon

ANSWER 11 (id: 1899_7):
Sounds cheap, I've put near on 50k into my red one in the last 12 years of ownership and that's doing everything myself exception to dyno tune and paying a bodyshop to put colour and clear down on a body I prepared. Never selling the car so the cost doesn't phase me as I'm building it to enjoy. It's insured for it so if it burns down tomorrow I'll get back what I put into it. Beats spending 50k on holidays and just having pictures and memories.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1899_8):
$1450usd for euro chrome bumpers! and $400usd for grills? Jeez Louise. I might need to up my insurance The e30 build is cool in that its exactly the kind of car a "real e30 enthusiast" would build given the budget. as opposed to alot of other youtubers trying to do outlandish things for attention I guess. Those wheels are delicious. And didn't this car have some sort of sentimental value? his mate died or something. I like cars with back stories.

ANSWER 13 (id: 1899_9):
Originally posted by e30davie And didn't this car have some sort of sentimental value? his mate died or something. I like cars with back stories. It's a tribute to the car of a deceased friend of his, yes. AFAIK the original car is with the friend's brother(s).