QUESTION ID: 1435

QUESTION:
Worked with AC Solutions on getting their r134a conversion kit to fit iX. Easy install and ice cold. Definitely keep an eye out if you need to update your air conditioning. They’ll probably have the kit for the iX available soon.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1435_0):
Hope I am not highjacking the thread, if so PM me and I’ll delete my post. Another option is “L.C. Wylie &Co”. I bought a complete E30 325ix specific AC Kit from him almost two years ago now. I liked his kit because he uses the 709 Sanden compressor. It took me almost two years to get around to installing it since the car was undergoing other restoration projects. I didn’t do the work myself as I do not have the time to fiddle with it and is probably beyond my skills. It would have been straight bolt on except since mine is turbo’d the shop had to modify and extend one of the turbo pipes to allow rom for the new compressor fittings which are on the opposite side. Picked up the car this weekend and it’s blowing ice cold. Max

ANSWER 2 (id: 1435_1):
Originally posted by Max325ix Hope I am not highjacking the thread, if so PM me and I’ll delete my post. Another option is “L.C. Wylie &Co”. I bought a complete E30 325ix specific AC Kit from him almost two years ago now. I liked his kit because he uses the 709 Sanden compressor. It took me almost two years to get around to installing it since the car was undergoing other restoration projects. I didn’t do the work myself as I do not have the time to fiddle with it and is probably beyond my skills. It would have been straight bolt on except since mine is turbo’d the shop had to modify and extend one of the turbo pipes to allow rom for the new compressor fittings which are on the opposite side. Picked up the car this weekend and it’s blowing ice cold. Max are they in operation still? they were perpetually out of stock and not answering emails a couple yrs ago and then fell off the radar.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1435_2):
Originally posted by 82eye are they in operation still? they were perpetually out of stock and not answering emails a couple yrs ago and then fell off the radar. I am still in contact with them. I think they no longer furnish the complete kits but, I believe the are providing the detailed list of the parts they no longer include and where to source them. I’ll reach out and find out the status and post update here. Max

ANSWER 4 (id: 1435_3):
Originally posted by Max325ix I am still in contact with them. I think they no longer furnish the complete kits but, I believe the are providing the detailed list of the parts they no longer include and where to source them. I’ll reach out and find out the status and post update here. Max yeah it's a small operation. their compressor mount was always the big item. might not be worth their time for much else. hope it's still being made.