QUESTION ID: 428

QUESTION:
Hi there, new to this site but definitely not new to the E30's or BMW for that matter, so here's my contribution, I searched and searched and I couldn't find a true one touch window switches DIY using the green based E36 switches or the newer ones "Low Current" press once window goes up/down, press the second button window goes up/down automatically, so here we go, since the E36 switch work on such an awkward way, it grounds both inputs once you press the button twice and the computer realize you need to express the window and it does its thing, we obviously can't use that method with normal one touch modules, so here's what i did. Before I start I’m sure BMW could of included this feature but they decided not to for some odd reason, so do it at your own risk, there's some hacking that has to be done to the switches and the modules again it worked for me and I’m assuming it should work for you. First take the switch apart, With an exacto knife cut this line De-solder this button and also cut this copper line Re-solder the button back Clean it up And if your soldering isn't as good it's because you’re not using this Now solder two wires at these locations Run the two wires thru these openings (not sure why these are there but they work wonder) Now we have two separate wires for when you press the switch the second time. Now open up the one touch module and solder two wires like this, these two wires control the up/down relays, each relay is energized once one of the wires is grounded If you have a different module than the one I have, look for the relay and find which pin you need to ground across the coil for the relay to energize and solder your wires to it. Now the fun part ☺ Connect all the grounds, from the E30, E36 switch, and the one touch module Connect all the positives together, the Gray/Red wire from the E36 switch to the positive from the E30 (thick green I think :S) and the red wire form the module Now the wires we soldered to the on the E36 switch need to be connected to the GROUND input wires on the module since we’re using the ground trigger (the way the E36 works, we need to keep it this way for the illumination to work) the last two wires Now the original wires coming out of the E36 switch need to be connected to the wires we soldered directly to the relay, I don’t remember the colours of the wires but you may go ahead and experiment, the worst thing that might happen if you reversed them is the window will go down when you press up, no biggie, looking at the bottom of the board, the relay to the right side rolls the window up Test everything and if all goes well solder all the wire together, then cover them up in electric tape. I’m not big fan of the quick disconnects; the ones you see in the picture were already in my car when I bought it so I just left them there. Here’s a video of it on action <iframe width="425" height="349" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/g5TeC3dBWBw?hl=en&fs=1" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5TeC3dBWBw If you guys want I can make a schematic so it’s understood better but I believe it is kind of straightforward procedure. BTW this is pretty universal and it should work on most of the cars including all the older BMW’s, also this method works on the sunroof too. all feedback/questions are welcome :) Yanal EDIT: pictures with arrows

ANSWER 1 (id: 428_1):
Originally posted by selturk wow pretty sick.. thanks for sharing and welcome. Agreed, definitely something I want to do when I have some extra money/time.

ANSWER 2 (id: 428_10):
Awesome write up. I am going to start looking for the stuff needed. Just a few quick questions. a. where is the module located in the e36? b. where did you stash it when you finished installing in the e30? c. can the module control 2 windows and the sunroof? If so what else would need to be done to make the sunroof one work too?

ANSWER 3 (id: 428_4):
Brilliant mod. If is not too much work, could you place an arrow on the pics that say "cut this line" and "cut this copper line". It's not that clear. Great post!

ANSWER 4 (id: 428_6):
Originally posted by svn2002s Brilliant mod. If is not too much work, could you place an arrow on the pics that say "cut this line" and "cut this copper line". It's not that clear. Great post! I'll upload another picture with arrows once I get home