QUESTION ID: 3283

QUESTION:
so I dont post much on this forum and haven't had an E30 since 2011 but it seems like this forum is still pretty active which is great. Anyway I know there are a handful of you on this forum that are familiar with 300td's and Ive been thinking about picking one up as a daily driver. My budget is around 6k. I found this one and while I've been doing a bit of research myself, I still wanted R3v's opinion on it so tell me what you think about this lil tank below. - 1982 Mercedes 300TD Turbo - $6400 obo - 140k miles - odometer is in working condition. - automatic (since all 300td's after 1981 came automatic unfortunately, 240d 4/5 speed swap maybe?) - owner claims it has no rust at all - lower portion of the car was repainted a couple of years ago and upper portion is original paint. - Self leveling suspension has no leaks and works well - New brakes. Fuel tank flushed and cleaned, fuel strainer cleaned. - New fuel filters, air filter, antifreeze - Power windows all work, manual seats and sunroof. No leaks. - comes with Mercedes maintenance book and records. One thing I'm unsure about is if I buy this I plan to drive this everyday, even in the harsh New England winter and Im wondering if I should do that to this somewhat pristine 300td. I found a couple in my area that can be had for under $3k. although they are bit rusty and they dont come with records. Pics:

ANSWER 1 (id: 3283_1):
Originally posted by Kershaw Do it. Everything has to die some day. Using that car as a DD would be awesome. I guess that's a pretty good way of looking at it. I was thinking about heading down to VA to pick this up for $3500 as well but i said fuhgetaboutit http://washingtondc.craigslist.org/nva/cto/5767131572.html

ANSWER 2 (id: 3283_10):
I'm going to be a contrarian here.. $6400 for that? Fuck no. You could get a much newer, much nicer, and all the more likely more reliable car for $6400. Subaru wagon? E39 wagon? for $1000, sure.. but almost $7k? you'd have to be crazy.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3283_11):
Do you know anything about Mercedes? if not you will learn quickly with this. Not saying they aren't reliable just saying that anything this old will need repairs. Me personally I wouldn't want to DD it. Being what it is parts aren't impossible too find but could take a few days to order and come in leaving you with no car. As far as the price I don't think its to far off from what I can see in the pictures. Pristine low mileage examples can go $20k+ but like in the previous post you can get something for half the price that's much more reliable and cheaper to own and maintain especially for a DD. Side note if you need anything I run a euro salvage yard/repair shop so if you need anything let me know. I have 2 W123 wagons out back if I remember correctly plus many sedans and coupes.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3283_12):
My grandparents have a w124 300 turbo diesel, it's painfully slow around town but above 40 it's pretty fast, a lot of fun on the highway, my grandpa always tells stories of the car being great at speeds north of 100 mph. But with almost thirty Connecticut winters under its belt, rust is starting to become an issue, the rockers in front of the rear wheels are swiss cheese, and the factory jack points are starting to go. That being said, that wagon seems really expensive, like nando said, for that money you can get a safer, and more reliable wagon.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3283_5):
Ive wanted one of these for a while myself ... found a local example from 1979 with 470,000 original miles. yes you read that right. Owners were very meticulous and the transmission apparently was starting to slip a tad (no surprise). Reliability with these can definitely be expected. From what I have read they are just bulletproof and the diesels go forever with minimal care. The injector seals leak over time and is the cause of many hard starts... the kind where the owner says it must crank 20 times or so when cold. just a matter of low fuel pressure, and an easy fix. Id say do it, the value of these is on the rise - get in while you can! next one I see for under $800 I am buying as long as the body is straight. 30mpg highway and the gear carrying capacity is just awesome!

ANSWER 6 (id: 3283_6):
The SLS on those go bad, but it's usually the accumulator balls. Suspension get's ROCK HARD in the rear Rust. The climate control is dickey....lots of vac pots and shit under the dash. At least one is inaccessible without removing the dash. The control head goes out and the reman ones aren't worth the plastic they're made from. The heater valve is the same as an e28 and the Chinese rebuild kits suck dickfuckpoop and the OE valve costs a bazillion dollars. The AC compressor is an asshole and replacement ones are shit, so the Sandeen kit is the way to go. Lines are all basically NLA so if you want to replace them you'll have to have them made....not that AC is a big deal way up nawth. Rust. Fuses get old and will crown out. Replace them all at once. Diesel fuel leaks at the engine. Usually the return lines. They're not bad. OM617 is a great engine turbocharged. The transmissions can be hit or miss depending on if they've been maintained like they should have been. Tanks tend to get rusty/"diesel bug" in them if they sit for long periods. Everything runs on goddamn vacuum. Lose one door lock line and the engine won't cut off. Smoke testing those things....you will get good at. Seen window motors go, they're hen's teeth. Also the window switches get dirty and just need a but of cleaning to make work. Rust. They ALL have rust. Even the rust free ones. It's a toleration level....and a finding it ability. Overall they're great cars that will hold up well and serve you well if you take care of them but I hate them and never want to see another one. Also the back goddamn glass doesn't open up.....WTF were they thinking? I'd say if it's got all those records and shit, go for it.....as long as you can keep filing those records to keep it nice. The ratty ones are SHITTTTTY, and it seems so many hipsters pick these things up to look cool in but can't keep them on the road very long.....at least that's what I see from my office....

ANSWER 7 (id: 3283_7):
Originally posted by 5Toes Ive wanted one of these for a while myself ... found a local example from 1979 with 470,000 original miles. yes you read that right. Owners were very meticulous and the transmission apparently was starting to slip a tad (no surprise). Reliability with these can definitely be expected. From what I have read they are just bulletproof and the diesels go forever with minimal care. The injector seals leak over time and is the cause of many hard starts... the kind where the owner says it must crank 20 times or so when cold. just a matter of low fuel pressure, and an easy fix. Id say do it, the value of these is on the rise - get in while you can! next one I see for under $800 I am buying as long as the body is straight. 30mpg highway and the gear carrying capacity is just awesome! Thanks for the info and I don't know where you are located but finding one for under $1k is impossible here in New England. Originally posted by slammin.e28 The SLS on those go bad, but it's usually the accumulator balls. Suspension get's ROCK HARD in the rear Rust. The climate control is dickey....lots of vac pots and shit under the dash. At least one is inaccessible without removing the dash. The control head goes out and the reman ones aren't worth the plastic they're made from. The heater valve is the same as an e28 and the Chinese rebuild kits suck dickfuckpoop and the OE valve costs a bazillion dollars. The AC compressor is an asshole and replacement ones are shit, so the Sandeen kit is the way to go. Lines are all basically NLA so if you want to replace them you'll have to have them made....not that AC is a big deal way up nawth. Rust. Fuses get old and will crown out. Replace them all at once. Diesel fuel leaks at the engine. Usually the return lines. They're not bad. OM617 is a great engine turbocharged. The transmissions can be hit or miss depending on if they've been maintained like they should have been. Tanks tend to get rusty/"diesel bug" in them if they sit for long periods. Everything runs on goddamn vacuum. Lose one door lock line and the engine won't cut off. Smoke testing those things....you will get good at. Seen window motors go, they're hen's teeth. Also the window switches get dirty and just need a but of cleaning to make work. Rust. They ALL have rust. Even the rust free ones. It's a toleration level....and a finding it ability. Overall they're great cars that will hold up well and serve you well if you take care of them but I hate them and never want to see another one. Also the back goddamn glass doesn't open up.....WTF were they thinking? I'd say if it's got all those records and shit, go for it.....as long as you can keep filing those records to keep it nice. The ratty ones are SHITTTTTY, and it seems so many hipsters pick these things up to look cool in but can't keep them on the road very long.....at least that's what I see from my office.... Sounds good. Im going to take a look at it on Sunday. Also I heard about the SLS failing and being expensive to replace. Although I read its possible to swap in a regular suspension set up.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3283_8):
Originally posted by Deltron Dirty30 yup Cool! Throw some sand bags in the back and some snow tires and you should get around just fine in the winter.