QUESTION ID: 1290

QUESTION:
It's Spring, when an e30 Cabrio owners thoughts again drift back to top down cruising, wind blowing in your hair, hearing the birds, pollen driving your sinuses crazy. Now's the time to upgrade your tonneau and soft top gas struts to take full advantage of the weather without excess frustration when raising and lowering your top. I had these custom made by the same European factory that makes my seat shocks and I have them installed in my own cabrio. The deck lid struts we all know about but many Cabrio owners dont even know the top hinge has struts too. On a manual top they counter balance the weight of the top so it is MUCH easier to raise and lower. This really helps when you have to walk around to the other side to tuck your tension straps or to position the canvas which hates to fold itself. On an electric top these will take a big load off of your expensive motors and hardware which should add to their lifespan. It is the same part for both manual and electric tops. Included with each pair are the plastic sleeves which last I checked are NLA. Note also that I will not be reordering these so whatever I have left is it, so if you arent ready or dont have a cabrio yet, you may want to grab a set while you can. I've been selling the soft top struts for $89 shipped CONUS and the deck lids for $40. Now (includes CONUS shipping and fees): Top Hinge Struts $75/pair Deck Lid/Tonneau Struts $35/pair All 4 for $99 !!! Stupid cheap, I know !! PM me for PayPal info

ANSWER 1 (id: 1290_1):
So I’m new here and just bought my first e30 vert about a week ago. I’m almost certain I’m missing these. Do you have any pics installed so I can confirm where these should be located?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1290_2):
Originally posted by 92_vert So I’m new here and just bought my first e30 vert about a week ago. I’m almost certain I’m missing these. Do you have any pics installed so I can confirm where these should be located? I must somewhere..lol.let me look. You're not likely to be missing them. If you need to hold the deck lid up with your shoulder then you need those and if raising the top feels like you are lifting a cinder block you need the hinge struts too. Honestly I'm yet to see a cabrio that didn't have blow hinge struts...unless they've already bought replacements from me :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 1290_9):
Originally posted by sandman_01 I know you said you won’t be getting anymore of these, but... any chance you changed your mind?? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk This is a tough one. I had these custom made and the lead time was 3 months. I was determined to include the plastic sleeves for a turn key swap since IME many of the sleeves are either broken or warped. When I ordered all those sleeves from BMW my parts guy got a call from Germany asking if he had made a mistake as they did not have that many anywhere (I think there 11 in NA at the time) lol. They shipped 2\3 of my order right away then made more which, fortunately arrived right when the struts did....but unfortunately at a higher price (which I absorbed). Today, I dont even know if/when I can get them and what they would cost. If I sell struts without them Im going to have customers who may not be able to install them which a makes for unhappy people and b) hurts sales. Throw in volatile exchange rates and the potential for tariffs and it becomes a roll of the dice. Given the amount of time it took to sell these off and the fact that putting tops up and down is seasonal, the best I can do is look at this again towards year end with a view to possibly doing a run to be available in the spring. I do however, have deck lid struts on hand and seat shocks "out for delivery"