QUESTION ID: 2903

QUESTION:
Hey fellow E30 lovers, I brought my cabriolet into the mechanic with the parts. I only needed them installed. What's a fair price for the labor to install the blower motor and resistor? Thanks everybody! Sent from my SM-G930P using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 2903_10):
Originally posted by McGyver As a side note, I would never install customer provided parts. After having been a mechanic, I would also be very nervous taking my car to a shop that allows me to supply parts. Every reputable independent BMW shop I've used would let me supply parts. My parts are always OE, OEM, or OEM equivalent. Not sure if that makes a difference, or how they would respond if I showed up with parts from AutoZone. Cory

ANSWER 2 (id: 2903_11):
Originally posted by cory58 Every reputable independent BMW shop I've used would let me supply parts. My parts are always OE, OEM, or OEM equivalent. Not sure if that makes a difference, or how they would respond if I showed up with parts from AutoZone. Cory Say you think your starter is bad: Did the shop diagnose the starter as the problem, or did you bring them a part and ask them to put it on the car? What happens you just asked them to put the part on and it didn't fix anything? What happens if your OE starter fails after a month? Obviously your warranty covers the part, but who covers the labor of putting in another starter? Do you have to buy a second starter so the shop can just remove and replace, or does your car take up space on their lot/lift while you wait for a new starter? When a mechanic diagnoses an issue, supplies the part, and installs the part, all the responsibility is on the shop. As a shop, I wouldn't want to warranty any customer supplied part or the labor to install it. Also as a shop, I wouldn't want to lose profit to an online retailer. So personally, I would be nervous about a shop that gives up profit and assuming the labor cost if a part fails.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2903_12):
Originally posted by McGyver Say you think your starter is bad: Did the shop diagnose the starter as the problem, or did you bring them a part and ask them to put it on the car? What happens you just asked them to put the part on and it didn't fix anything? What happens if your OE starter fails after a month? Obviously your warranty covers the part, but who covers the labor of putting in another starter? Do you have to buy a second starter so the shop can just remove and replace, or does your car take up space on their lot/lift while you wait for a new starter? When a mechanic diagnoses an issue, supplies the part, and installs the part, all the responsibility is on the shop. As a shop, I wouldn't want to warranty any customer supplied part or the labor to install it. Also as a shop, I wouldn't want to lose profit to an online retailer. So personally, I would be nervous about a shop that gives up profit and assuming the labor cost if a part fails. The shop I use will let me supply a part based on an agreed and thought out diagnosis. BUT, they clearly say every time that they will not warranty any of it. Can't confirm, but suspect that they only do this for very select customers that they know have extensive knowledge and ability. The only thing I ever really go to them for is for things that either require tools that I do not have or for work that I'd rather pay somebody else to do.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2903_13):
Originally posted by Mook613 BUT, they clearly say every time that they will not warranty any of it. As long as you are OK with that, and it's all in writing, most shops would be fairly fine with that. Obviously, many of us have different relationships with shops being enthusiast. But Jane waffleswaffleswaffles with her BMW mini that blew up a motor (again) probably isn't going to be showing up with a good pull she sourced from somewhere and expecting a full shop warranty.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2903_2):
From the opening post i get the impression he has already dropped it off at the mechanic. Hopefully the mechanic doesn't see it as an open chequebook.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2903_3):
4 bolts for the access cover in the engine bay and a spring clip holds the blower motor in the housing. It's not like a lot of cars where you have to remove half the dash.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2903_4):
Originally posted by e30sh 4 bolts for the access cover in the engine bay and a spring clip holds the blower motor in the housing. It's not like a lot of cars where you have to remove half the dash. if only it was that easy lol, the m42, and m50s etc, you may as well remove intake

ANSWER 8 (id: 2903_5):
Originally posted by Matt-B if only it was that easy lol, the m42, and m50s etc, you may as well remove intake He said it was an e30 vert so I assumed an i motor. No mention of an engine swap. If it's an M42, there is an engine harness clipped to the access cover but that's no big deal.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2903_7):
Originally posted by Matt-B you must install a lot of blower motors and its been a breeze every time Not that many but never had one fight me so maybe I'm lucky. A couple of the access cover screws can be a bit of a pain to get to but overall a pretty easy job. There are DIY videos on youtube for those that want to try it themselves.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2903_8):
I just changed the resistor and blower motor on my vert. Not hard at all. Don't know why people bitch about it. My only problem was the clip didn't want to snap back in once all together.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2903_9):
I would expect you to be charged at least an hour, probably 2 hours, at your local labor rate. For an e30 with an m20, it should only take them 45 min to complete the job. As a side note, I would never install customer provided parts. After having been a mechanic, I would also be very nervous taking my car to a shop that allows me to supply parts.