QUESTION ID: 3389

QUESTION:
I hate doing this, but I tried to do this the right way and havent gotten any response. Some of you may know the story about how my buddy crashed my car, well, I had seen these euro alpine fenders for sale and they looked mint. Link to this FS ad for the fenders: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=371239 After my friend crashed my car, I sent him a PM and this was our exchange. Sent sometime around December 15th Originally posted by 2mAn what was the cost to the greyhound station at 90021? I want both, my friend just ruined my last set Originally posted by B Randon shipping is 70 Originally posted by 2mAn Yea I figured it would be a lot. can you lower the cost of the fenders a little? I recently bought mint ones + a door for $200, can you do like 75 each? Originally posted by B Randon sorry its 200 for the fenders Originally posted by 2mAn you cant do $250 shipped?? If you can I will buy them right now At that point, I didnt want to make my friend so much money, but after the holidays he told me to just do it. Prior to sending money, I realized I never actually asked if they were mint, so... 1/4/16 Bumped the thread asking if the fenders were mint. - No response. 1/7/16 Bumped the thread again saying that money was sent. - No response. Another PM sent, this was THAT exchange Originally posted by 2mAn Brandonbarbor31@gmail.com money sent. you still have the info of the station to deliver them to? I assume you will package them quite well, I found a surprise on my last set of "mint" fenders Originally posted by B Randon yeah, just going to need your name like on lic, an a # for them to call. About a week or so passed, I hadnt heard anything and wasnt too nervous, but thought I should reach out to him. 1/18/16 Bumped thread again, this time because I hadnt heard anything about shipping details - No response 1/21/16 Last bump of the thread addressing the fact that they went to the wrong location. I also PM'd AND emailed him. It said he was online a few days ago and thought I would give him a chance to respond. - No response I thought I should check the transaction feedback and he has had issues with other people, but other people have had great feedback. http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=192525 Im annoyed (obviously) but this can be worked out, I just dont think this behavior should be brushed aside, and think Im deserving of half, if not ALL of my shipping expenses back, since thats what its going to cost me to drive and pick up the parts... So, today I log-in and low and behold he's logged in and hasnt responded anywhere. Im still holding my breath for some resolution, but now its time for me to call him out on the megaphone. I dont have a problem paying money for shipping AND paying a premium price for the fenders, but I shouldnt have to deal with travelling 300+ miles to go get my fenders without him refunding something back. If he covers a tank of gas (which is only HALF of the driving I will have to do, I will be happy TLDR: Paid a lot for a pair of fenders that got shipped to the wrong address and now seller wont respond

ANSWER 1 (id: 3389_0):
Damn, that's jacked up. First you paid up the booty for fenders and now you have to drive 300 miles to get them? Lol that's lame. Sellers need to be 100% on their communication or stop selling shit.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3389_10):
Originally posted by jhaurimn Man. Hope you get all this figured out! :/ Me too, I just want my car back to looking like it did before. Its sitting now with a bunch of bent up parts and no bumpers. At least I know where the bumpers are, I found a "new" hood and valence, and was hoping to have the fenders installed already. I cant drive her with how ugly she looks right now Originally posted by jeffnhiscars You guys know I stay out of these kinds of threads but I'm about to make an exception. I've met Brandon at both the Vintage and at a Korman open house. Nice enough guy but...I've never done business with him despite having tried more than once and he is the only person on r3v that I've ever blocked. Take it for what's it worth. Sounds like this mofo is shady. I wont be happy about this until I see the fenders and see zero dings... but until then

ANSWER 3 (id: 3389_11):
Guess I'll chime in. I bought a wiper linkage off of him. It arrived more or less as expected, but I had to borrow a few small pieces off my old one (some clips or something). Not the smoothest transaction I've done, for a few reasons, one of which I'm pretty sure was my fault (paid with paypal, but it wouldn't use my credit card for some reason (don't know why), ended up paying overdraft fees... twice!), but I got what I paid for within a reasonable amount of time.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3389_12):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 Guess I'll chime in. I bought a wiper linkage off of him. It arrived more or less as expected, but I had to borrow a few small pieces off my old one (some clips or something). Not the smoothest transaction I've done, for a few reasons, one of which I'm pretty sure was my fault (paid with paypal, but it wouldn't use my credit card for some reason (don't know why), ended up paying overdraft fees... twice!), but I got what I paid for within a reasonable amount of time. Thats why i hate the google wallet shit. It only allows bank account and just like you I didnt have the cash in my account right away so i was gonna out it on a card. I ended up just not buying yhe item cause 1 when i asked if he'd pay paypal for just that reason wanted to do a card. And mainly when i asked to do paypal he just ignored me.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3389_13):
The question here is though, how the hell does this guy ship parts to the wrong part of the state and not even respond. An equivalent is if he shipped a part to Buffalo when you live in New York city. Its insane.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3389_4):
Damn that sucks. I remember he disappeared when i tried to get some parts of him a while back. Gave up on it and paying in google wallet is so inconvenient.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3389_5):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Damn that sucks. I remember he disappeared when i tried to get some parts of him a while back. Gave up on it and paying in google wallet is so inconvenient. Google wallet is lame. The fact that he only accepted google wallet made me wary and I never purchased anything even though I wanted to.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3389_6):
Originally posted by ST1G Google wallet is lame. The fact that he only accepted google wallet made me wary and I never purchased anything even though I wanted to. Yep same here. The fact it doesnt let ypu make a payment off a credit card and only a linked back account made me never want to do it again.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3389_7):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Simon, you're in Cali now...we have a lot of good parts here. I got lucky to find the almost mint alpine fenders and they got destroyed when this happened, so it was either wait until another set pops up or get these... My buddy wanted to fix my car ASAP and said to buy them

ANSWER 10 (id: 3389_9):
You guys know I stay out of these kinds of threads but I'm about to make an exception. I've met Brandon at both the Vintage and at a Korman open house. Nice enough guy but...I've never done business with him despite having tried more than once and he is the only person on r3v that I've ever blocked. Take it for what's it worth.