QUESTION ID: 2528

QUESTION:
First Post How's it going everyone, I recently acquired an 89 e30 5 speed that has been giving me headaches. The problem I am having is intermittent, as I drive on occasion the car will lose power as if it Is in a limp mode (didn't know e30s had a limp mode) the car will show that it is overheating. If I pull over and start the car again it is fine the temp gauge shows that the temp is where it needs to be and it will continue to drive normal, for about 5 minutes before it happens again of course. I have changed the orange and blue coolant temp sensors and that did not help. again some days it won't give me a problem at all, and on those days I am in love, but with this issue I am never comfortable in the car. Any info or ideas are greatly appreciated, I hope you guys can help.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2528_0):
the temp thing is probably a gauge cluster issue. as for the lack of power, it could be SO many things but the car needs 3 things to operate: air, fuel, and spark (electric) so keep that in mind. misfires due to bad plugs or wires, or vacuum leaks, don't normally tend to be "limp mode" symptomatic. it sorta sounds more like a fuel problem such as a clogged filter or bad pump. but it's so hard to say from here.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2528_1):
There is a connector under the intake manifold...along the side of the block known as the C191. These are known to collect water/dirt and corrode badly....result is strange idling issues, hard starting and other strange behavior. Do a Google search on "BMW E30 C191" and you will find tons of info on how to locate, check and repair if needed. I would look here as one of your next steps...worst case you find a problem....best case it is fine and you can continue troubleshooting other systems. MJ

ANSWER 3 (id: 2528_2):
Originally posted by mjweimer There is a connector under the intake manifold...along the side of the block known as the C191. These are known to collect water/dirt and corrode badly....result is strange idling issues, hard starting and other strange behavior. Do a Google search on "BMW E30 C191" and you will find tons of info on how to locate, check and repair if needed. I would look here as one of your next steps...worst case you find a problem....best case it is fine and you can continue troubleshooting other systems. MJ I was kind of hoping I would go look at the C191 connector and see the root of my problem, unfortunately that wasn't my issue the connector is in food condition with zero corrosion.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2528_3):
Originally posted by Tscott97 I was kind of hoping I would go look at the C191 connector and see the root of my problem, unfortunately that wasn't my issue the connector is in food condition with zero corrosion. Well, that's good and bad. Good in that you don't need to re-work the C191 which is a pain....but bad that you need to dig further. Start with the basics and check all the ground connections for corrosion, frayed wires, etc. From there I would check various electrical connections to the common items that could cause driveability issues....crank position sender should get a good check to make sure the wire is not frayed, etc. You can find the Electronic Troubleshooting Manuals here: http://wedophones.com/Manuals/BMW/ Intermittent problems are the worst but hopefully you can sort it out with a little perseverance. MJ