QUESTION ID: 2687

QUESTION:
Trying to do business with another member here on the forum by the name "jeffreybacons" and I wanted to know who personally know this person or has done business with them in the past. This is very important to me and the info is greatly appreciated since I don't want to get scammed nor I want anyone else to loose money. **ANYBODY that has been scammed or even if you know someone who got scammed, please round up the info and pm me. Please. with all this response I know I don't stand alone. Speak up Now & the meet will go down**

ANSWER 1 (id: 2687_10):
i paid for those lights like 30 mins after that thread got posted just to wake up today to the thread being locked and him being banned, the transaction had already been made and I was still under the impression I had got a good deal, my own mistake for not doing my own homwork. Karma is a bitch- he will get his Originally posted by e30construction you asked us a question but went ahead and did it before given an anwer..sooo idk good luck with getting that back

ANSWER 2 (id: 2687_11):
I still have faith in this forum and everybody I have made friends and transactions with. I love being on here and helping/getting help from anyone else who is into 30's. I just need to realize that not everyone on here is as trustworthy as I am

ANSWER 3 (id: 2687_3):
Since I am at work and I am supposed to be working, I took the liberty at looking at the three threads he has posted. Looks like a scammer, as all threads have been locked after users dug up some dirt on him in other forums.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2687_4):
Originally posted by carbeater looks like I got f*cked you asked us a question but went ahead and did it before given an anwer..sooo idk good luck with getting that back

ANSWER 5 (id: 2687_5):
Good thing I didn't get that moonroof setup from him...he asked me to send payment to him as a gift to avoid PayPal fees. Sounds a little shady to me...

ANSWER 6 (id: 2687_6):
Originally posted by redsubdivisions he asked me to send payment to him as a gift to avoid PayPal fees. Sounds a little shady to me... We should all know better than to send payment as a gift. If a seller won't eat the 3% (even though it really should be factored in to the price), I'll just pay it. In my experience from buying and selling parts for the past three years, the overwhelming majority of folks on this board are honest folks, and treat their fellow forum members how they'd like to be treated. But we don't get a new thread in the General Discussion forum every time someone has a good transaction. Originally posted by CrusherCurtis Alright, tell us the story. It probably starts off something like "So this guy responds to my WTB thread saying he has a set of mint Startecs he'll sell me for $300 shipped..."

ANSWER 7 (id: 2687_7):
That's too bad, hope you can undo your transaction, assuming he's a scammer. I was kinda sketchy about this guy from the start. He was selling highly sought after parts for dirt cheap, yet his for sale threads kept popping back up. When he posted about his dad dying, that should have been another red flag, but, most wouldn't want to call a guy out on that, just in case it really happened. Anyway, sorry to hear about this situation, let us know how it turns out, and definitly post something in the feedback section.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2687_9):
I looked into his IP addresses this moring when i came home from work. Three where from Chicago and two was from the Netherlands. His location was KS on his profile...