QUESTION ID: 3255

QUESTION:
I recently bought some parts for my car off a guy, Jeff, who has a metal shop and does custom work, all by hand, in his spare time. I'm in need of a skid plate and pitched him the idea of making me one. Would anyone be interested in a skid plate? Jeff normally does small contract projects for people so making a few to resell is right up his ally. They'd be simple in design and nothing more than functional. Let me know what you guys think/if you have any questions. I'll update this post later once we figure out the specifics of what we are going to make.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3255_11):
Other people successfully selling e30 skid plates means the idea is viable. Don't let people tell you that means you can't make any money. Most businesses don't discover their niche until after they start the business.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3255_2):
IXs don't really need a skid plate because the massive front subframe blocks most things. If you crack the front subframe, you're probably being an idiot.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3255_3):
Originally posted by efficient Skid plates for the m20 are already made. Maybe for ix m20 guys Originally posted by agent http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/show....php?p=4718730 I'm aware that skid plates are out there but Jeff told me that he would have no problem making something cheaper than the red46 plates. Just trying to help some people save a few bucks if they care to..

ANSWER 4 (id: 3255_4):
you can go ahead and have some made, what people are trying to tell you, is rede46, raceskids, and Jgee already make plates here. People just go to them for plates, and probably dont worry to much about saving 10-20$ if someone else had a plate, i have the 300$ jGee plate, best in the world for an e30. You might sell a few, but it might also not be worth your time, i think is what people are hinting at

ANSWER 5 (id: 3255_5):
Originally posted by efficient Skid plates for the m20 are already made. Maybe for ix m20 guys IX plates are made already. What people are hinting at notso, is that JGEE ( best for the $ ), race skids, and rede46 are already pretty set up here. So you might sell 1 or 2, but people just use the 3 i listed. Might not be worth your time.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3255_6):
I know youve been getting mixed feedback, but i wouldnt mind a somewhat custom plate if hes willing to make a few alterations. Red, raceskids, jGee all have great products but they have their own branding and set designs. I wouldnt mind something i could make my own if possible.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3255_7):
Originally posted by Matt-B you can go ahead and have some made, what people are trying to tell you, is rede46, raceskids, and Jgee already make plates here. People just go to them for plates, and probably dont worry to much about saving 10-20$ if someone else had a plate, i have the 300$ jGee plate, best in the world for an e30. You might sell a few, but it might also not be worth your time, i think is what people are hinting at So because others make stuff doesn't mean he shouldn't try. I do turbo manifolds for e30,e36,e34, evo8/9, evoX and because full race, ams, unobtanium makes them we should not sell our products to save people some money.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3255_8):
He said in the first few words, to go ahead and try. What he's saying in between the lines is just be realistic about the results or price them so people take note.