QUESTION ID: 2168

QUESTION:
So with AAA they don’t seem to value the car very high . Which is fine I get it . So what are my options? I have a fairly clean 1991 318i with a Bar’d s50 here in socal

ANSWER 1 (id: 2168_1):
Originally posted by 2mAn Is it your primary car and do you have it parked inside or outside? Garaged driven 2-3k miles a year . I have had AAA and State Farm . Never heard or dealt with Hagerty but I’m reading that as an option

ANSWER 2 (id: 2168_10):
I have Hagerty as well. Never made a claim, hope I never have to. I do drive my car, but its not a daily. I think I had to limit annual mileage with them, and I had to prove I had a daily driver that was less then 10yrs old when I signed up for the policy.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2168_11):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop You guys must not drive your cars because I drive mine and Hagerty won't even give me a quote. I use USAA I have USAA as my "normal" car insurance, although all of mine could be under Hagerty honestly (all are 20+ years old) aside from wife's car, but we are going to combine under the same policy very soon. I plan to drive mine quite a bit, but current mileage is set somewhat low. I was told they don't check registration/mileage though which is nice. I called in and figured they'd require me to say I have a new daily, but they didn't. I do have multiple vehicles to cover my needs though. I also carried over massive amounts for under-insured/un-insured coverage from USAA which is why my insurance is higher than probably what others pay with a clean driving record but I'd rather not take any chances. (This is probably the most expensive coverage that changes monthly/yearly premiums). If you don't have this coverage, I'd recommend it, it's not required in most states but I'd rather know if the other person's insurance isn't going to do the right thing, at least my coverage will. Far too many under-insured / un-insured drivers out there. Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Maybe I'll try again one day. Because it would be nice to insure it for what it would cost me to redo it. Or replace it. Definitely call in and talk to an agent, if you have other vehicles I feel like you should be able to make it happen. That was my thing, I don't think I could replace mine, so I tried to get max coverage.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2168_12):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 I have USAA as my "normal" car insurance, although all of mine could be under Hagerty honestly (all are 20+ years old) aside from wife's car, but we are going to combine under the same policy very soon. I plan to drive mine quite a bit, but current mileage is set somewhat low. I was told they don't check registration/mileage though which is nice. I called in and figured they'd require me to say I have a new daily, but they didn't. I do have multiple vehicles to cover my needs though. I also carried over massive amounts for under-insured/un-insured coverage from USAA which is why my insurance is higher than probably what others pay with a clean driving record but I'd rather not take any chances. (This is probably the most expensive coverage that changes monthly/yearly premiums). If you don't have this coverage, I'd recommend it, it's not required in most states but I'd rather know if the other person's insurance isn't going to do the right thing, at least my coverage will. Far too many under-insured / un-insured drivers out there. Definitely call in and talk to an agent, if you have other vehicles I feel like you should be able to make it happen. That was my thing, I don't think I could replace mine, so I tried to get max coverage. Yeah you are right about under-insured/un-insured drivers. I've had USAA for over 10 years and they have been good to me. But I have 2 classic vehicles (E30 & a 87 C10) that I would like to be covered well. I appreciate the advice.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2168_13):
I have Hagerty. Made a claim on my 996 C4S after it was stolen. The process was extremely easy and they took care of me without any hassle. I couldnt recommend Hagerty enough. If you are an enthusiast, Hagerty is your best bet.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2168_2):
Hagerty is the best option. They will just want some pics of it inside the garage, you tell them how much you drive and also how much coverage you want. Its been great for me

ANSWER 7 (id: 2168_3):
Originally posted by 2mAn Hagerty is the best option. They will just want some pics of it inside the garage, you tell them how much you drive and also how much coverage you want. Its been great for me They didn't even require garaged pics for my recent purchase, although it is. Highly encourage Hagerty. I don't want to battle the insurance company on something that can't be replaced. Premium is up there, and is more based on location than anything but I'd rather be over-insured than under insured.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2168_4):
Originally posted by 2mAn Hagerty is the best option. They will just want some pics of it inside the garage, you tell them how much you drive and also how much coverage you want. Its been great for me Just got off the phone with Hagerty and they gave me a quote at 70$ month with pretty high premiums 1k deductible and 20k car value .

ANSWER 9 (id: 2168_5):
Another Hagerty customer. Never made a claim.. Hope wont ever have to. Every year of upgrades I just send them more photos and receipts and set the value.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2168_7):
i have Grundy, drive my cars regularly and have high values on all of them. the policy is very affordable and they have been really easy to deal with. HTH, A

ANSWER 11 (id: 2168_8):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop You guys must not drive your cars because I drive mine and Hagerty won't even give me a quote. I use USAA I put 10K miles on my E30 last year.