QUESTION ID: 868

QUESTION:
So im sure someone out here is contemplating the s55b30 swap of the future, esp since it bmw has gone back to a straight six. Im sure at some point someone is going to pull the trigger and take a dive at. where can I find some tech data to see if it will fit " " im sure the wiring will be a complete ; and looking at the cooling system that going to be squeeze on top of that the exhaust manifolds look like they will get in the way esp since they have the two turbos on them esp that lower down pipe.

ANSWER 1 (id: 868_0):
I've fitted a N55 into E36 without much effort, it has a single turbo so it clears everything. As I look at S55 turbo configuration, I can imagine one can build custom downpipes to clear subframe. If I could fit N55 into E36, one could fit S55 with some extra manufacturing in E30.

ANSWER 2 (id: 868_1):
how close is the n55 cooling system to that of the s55, because the one on the s55 looks completely bastardize compared to anything Ive ever seen with a turbo. it looks like the went WRX style placing one on top of the motor and then one on left. What motor mounts did you end up using with the n55?

ANSWER 3 (id: 868_2):
cooling system is very similar. You are talking big now. You will not see S55 for sale for another 5 years, even then you have to buy the whole car to have all the correct parts for it. Might as well stop dreaming edit 5 years later ---->

ANSWER 4 (id: 868_3):
Originally posted by DesertBMW cooling system is very similar. You are talking big now. You will not see S55 for sale for another 5 years, even then you have to buy the whole car to have all the correct parts for it. Might as well stop dreaming idk you never know who will have a totaled car from the back. being able to afford it will be another story. dreaming it what makes have of this stuff possible on top of having the gumption to attempt it, with careful measuring and several failed attempts. if i had the money i would love to be on top of doing this swap.

ANSWER 5 (id: 868_5):
Originally posted by DesertBMW cooling system is very similar. You are talking big now. You will not see S55 for sale for another 5 years, even then you have to buy the whole car to have all the correct parts for it. Might as well stop dreaming It has been done now.