QUESTION ID: 740

QUESTION:
If you're like me. You part cars. But, if I had a pick-n-pull around me, You bet I'd be there a good amount of the time. I've heard stories of people buying engines, and having 200 heads on 2.5 blocks, 885 heads on 2.7 blocks, people selling 200 heads as 885 heads, etc. But this is the easy way to tell exactly what head your getting, without looking under the intake manifold. The 200 head. Came on the 2.7 ETA. Crappy head. Undesireable unless intent on staying stock. From the exhaust side, look between cylinders 4 and 5. You will see a little casting mark there. It will say 2/7 ETA. The 885 Head. Came on the SETA, and the M20B25. Desireable head. The "good" head. Flows much better than the 200. Again, from the exhaust side. Look down at the head above cylinder 2. You will see a little circle there. And on it you will see 2.5 over 2.7. Whether or not you have the extremely uncommon 7 bearing 885 will require you to pull the valve cover. But this gives you a quick idea of what they have. Please forgive my leaky valve cover gasket. I'll get on it once it's warm. The AMC Head. If you look on the exhaust side, you will not see the 2.7 ETA, or the 2.5/2.7 casting, instead you will see a casted circle with an indentation, much like the blocks core/freeze plugs. You can see that indentation above cylinder number 3 on the exhaust side. That is shown here in the upper left hand corner of the picture. Thanks goes out to users Fporro from here and Sunny Bimmerforums for this picture. The 731 head. Came on the 323i from euroland and Australialand. Decent head that can be ported out to the 885 sizes. The picture below shows that you have no casting circles, or the 2.7 ETA head, rather in the center of it between the cylinder numbers 3 and 4 exhaust ports, that there is a small casted port there, which something bolts to. Thanks goes out to user RanierHooker from E30tech for this picture. IF you find a discrepancy between your head and this information, PLEASE post it in here or PM me so I can amend it. I still would like some similar shots of the AMC and the 731 one that are similar to the pictures I took of the Eta and 885 head. One broad, and one closeup of casting marks that identify it.

ANSWER 1 (id: 740_1):
Originally posted by TurboJake Or, if it does not say anything where you have "2.5/2.7", like mine, then it is the dreaded AMC head. Noooooo.... Good post, this would have saved me a lot of searching a while back. Keep up the good work!

ANSWER 2 (id: 740_10):
Originally posted by Boise So I always thought my head was the AMC head because it did not say "2.5" on the casted knob above the 2nd cylinder exhaust port. However, I still have the knob (just with no numbers), and I have the circle with the indentation above the 3rd cylinder exhaust port. My head is not original, the PO snapped the timing belt in 2003 and it was replaced with a "remanufactured" head according to the service records. Any thoughts? Purely based on the casting surface texture, I'm inclined to say that your head is a BMW head and not an AMC. Every AMC I've seen has a very rough surface, whereas yours is rather smooth and appears to match the valve cover. But if you decide to look and find out what it says behind the intake manifold, let me know. I haven't seen that before.

ANSWER 3 (id: 740_12):
Originally posted by Boise So I always thought my head was the AMC head because it did not say "2.5" on the casted knob above the 2nd cylinder exhaust port. However, I still have the knob (just with no numbers), and I have the circle with the indentation above the 3rd cylinder exhaust port. My head is not original, the PO snapped the timing belt in 2003 and it was replaced with a "remanufactured" head according to the service records. Any thoughts? This is the first time I'm hearing about this AMC head business. I have a "stock" motor in a 325i with no receipt history. Mine looks like yours. I'm wondering where this fits inter the picture? If we figure this out, anyone would be welcome to use my picture as an example. EDIT: I almost forgot. I tore this head down two years ago and took pictures. This is what the backside says. I think it might be. bMW head ;-)

ANSWER 4 (id: 740_2):
Originally posted by TheTacoMan Just checked my super etas head, it just says 2.5, rather than 2.5/2.7. Would you happen to know what this means? 87-88 cars came from the factory with 885 heads embossed with "2.5" only and hex headbolts. Even if your car was a super ETA 2.7 liter. 89-on heads had "2.5/2.7". These are the original specs, so if you have an 87 325i with a "2.5/2.7" embossed head and torx headbolts you know they were changed at some point.

ANSWER 5 (id: 740_4):
Originally posted by Boise Or, if it does not say anything where you have "2.5/2.7", like mine, then it is the dreaded AMC head. Noooooo.... Good post, this would have saved me a lot of searching a while back. Keep up the good work! It just says 2.5 there Also it does have one spring per valve I checked just in case I had an I head. Also further inspection I found it was an 885.

ANSWER 6 (id: 740_5):
Originally posted by Herr Faust Schinken I just checked my head I have the little round thing but not the 2.5 /2.7 does this mean I have the cruddy amc head here's a picture I'm not a head expert, but it almost looks like they grinded the badge off

ANSWER 7 (id: 740_7):
Originally posted by Herr Faust Schinken I just checked my head I have the little round thing but not the 2.5 /2.7 does this mean I have the cruddy amc head here's a picture I don't think so, you can now see that I have added the info for an AMC head. You sir have an 885 head with that casting mark just machined or ground off. That casting circle does not exist on the AMC head at all above the #2 cylinder exhaust port.

ANSWER 8 (id: 740_8):
So I always thought my head was the AMC head because it did not say "2.5" on the casted knob above the 2nd cylinder exhaust port. However, I still have the knob (just with no numbers), and I have the circle with the indentation above the 3rd cylinder exhaust port. My head is not original, the PO snapped the timing belt in 2003 and it was replaced with a "remanufactured" head according to the service records. Any thoughts?

ANSWER 9 (id: 740_9):
Originally posted by Boise So I always thought my head was the AMC head because it did not say "2.5" on the casted knob above the 2nd cylinder exhaust port. However, I still have the knob (just with no numbers), and I have the circle with the indentation above the 3rd cylinder exhaust port. My head is not original, the PO snapped the timing belt in 2003 and it was replaced with a "remanufactured" head according to the service records. Any thoughts? o/t, you can replace that spark plug wire loom for like $10 from the dealership....