QUESTION ID: 3103

QUESTION:
After many months of hard work, reconstruction, and engineering, Dad's Elva 200 formula junior is finally finished and ready to hit the track! I'm so excited for him to have a car to drive again. He deserves some fun time, and this brings our total Elva 200 restorations up to four (the only ones in the country, incidentally)! It'll be awesome to get a shot of all four cars together :D It really turned out great :D

ANSWER 1 (id: 3103_10):
Originally posted by djjerme Nice! Is he going to use in wheel to wheel, vintage or track days? What compound is he going to run? Thanks! It will be vintage raced, which is the same as wheel-to-wheel aside from needless contact. That's what I do for a living: Dad and I bring customers' cars to tracks all over the country for them to test their ability. It's a great challenge! This car has to use the Dunlop L-series tire you see on the car now, as that's what they raced when new. Some video evidence:

ANSWER 2 (id: 3103_3):
Originally posted by Zeemz That looks BAD ASS!!! I know, right? :D Originally posted by Eric Giles Wow...very impressive! How are they to drive, and what engine is it using? Thanks Eric! I've only driven one once, and it was an early test session so I spent more time collecting data than enjoying it. That said, our drivers come in with huge grins on their faces every time they drive theirs! The engine is an 1,100cc Ford "Kent" 105E making about 113 horsepower and with a redline of 8,500rpm. Originally posted by LateFan I like the little "Indy" fin on the back! Inboard rear drums? Isn't that fin cool? That's my favorite part of these cars. Fun fact: the fin is slightly offset to the right because the mold was made crooked. Either Elva didn't care or they couldn't afford to make another mold, because all the cars we take care of have crooked fins! Inboard rear drums, yeah. That's an upside-down VW transaxle with aluminum 240Z drums adapted to this application. The original drums are long, long gone.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3103_4):
Great car and nice work ,I restored a lotus 18 formula junior with a 105e motor and a Renault dauphene transaxle many years ago ,this car has a very similar body style ,great fun to drive and very fast (for the time).The track formerly known as Sears point was our home base.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3103_5):
Originally posted by 1843lamp Great car and nice work ,I restored a lotus 18 formula junior with a 105e motor and a Renault dauphene transaxle many years ago ,this car has a very similar body style ,great fun to drive and very fast (for the time). The track formerly known as Sears point was our home base. That's awesome! We used to work on an 18, and we run against them all the time. These Elvas couldn't keep up most of the time in period due to a lack of funds, but the ones running out of our shop are every bit their equal! I'd love to visit Sears Point someday, it looks like an awesome track!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3103_7):
Great ,fun days then ,I will not forget,late 1980's period,the 18's usually were at the front ,the car I was associated with was the fastest of the lot ,no dry sump completely original including small de Tails such as the S.U. Fuel pump,I wanted to see how well I could make the original parts function ...no aeroquip fittings ,odeker clamps .

ANSWER 6 (id: 3103_8):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec That is the coolest thing I've ever seen. I'm glad! You should take a look at our website, I've got pictures and info about all the cars we take care of there! And race videos too ;D Originally posted by 1843lamp Great ,fun days then ,I will not forget,late 1980's period,the 18's usually were at the front ,the car I was associated with was the fastest of the lot ,no dry sump completely original including small de Tails such as the S.U. Fuel pump,I wanted to see how well I could make the original parts function ...no aeroquip fittings ,odeker clamps . The 18s are still quick, no doubt! They're great cars, though I'm very happy not to have to deal with that horrid transaxle.... The VW unit is clunkier, but much more durable. I love working with these Elvas so much because they had the potential to be great when they were new, and we're finally helping them live up to that potential! And to be fair, these cars are almost entirely original as well with exceptions made for safety.