QUESTION ID: 1136

QUESTION:
Hello guys, I'm considering to swap my steering rack for something quicker. I found a complete kit from Zionsville that use the e36 steering (I think from the M3 or certain year model). I don't know if this is the way to go or if there any better units or kits out there. This rack would be refurbished or brand new? I don't know what steering rack P/N they are offering in this kit but I believe is a progressive rater than linear ratio, which I really don't know what would be better performer for street use mainly. Or just go with a Z3 1.9L or non M Z3? Anyone have experience driving both racks to compare? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 1136_0):
I have not personally driven an E30 with a Z3 rack, but I have driven a M-Roadster. I gotta’ say the rack in really quick and rather responsive. I was surprised. I would say look no further than a Z rack.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1136_1):
I had a Z3 rack in my 318is. The linear nature of the Z3 rack made the car very "darty" on the highway (maybe not so good for a DD) but other than that it was freakin awesome. Easy install too. Mine came out of a Z3 1.9. ALSO food for though--->>>Havent driven the car yet but Im almost done installing a manual z4 rack. Its linear with a similar ratio to the Z3 rack.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1136_2):
Get the linear e46 ZHP rack. There are more of them and cheaper then the Z3 option. I got mine from rackdoctor.com, installed it in my vert and paired with a 320mm steering wheel it's like driving a gokart. I am seriously considering swapping out the z3 rack in my touring for the e46 ZHP rack as it 'feels' so much nicer as it doesn't have the dead spot in the center.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1136_3):
Originally posted by MC Hammered Get the linear e46 ZHP rack. There are more of them and cheaper then the Z3 option. I got mine from rackdoctor.com, installed it in my vert and paired with a 320mm steering wheel it's like driving a gokart. I am seriously considering swapping out the z3 rack in my touring for the e46 ZHP rack as it 'feels' so much nicer as it doesn't have the dead spot in the center. Do you have the P/N for the ZHP e46 rack? Also, do you know what else is needed to make it work properly? Thanks

ANSWER 5 (id: 1136_4):
Originally posted by totheredline I had a Z3 rack in my 318is. The linear nature of the Z3 rack made the car very "darty" on the highway (maybe not so good for a DD) but other than that it was freakin awesome. Easy install too. Mine came out of a Z3 1.9. ALSO food for though--->>>Havent driven the car yet but Im almost done installing a manual z4 rack. Its linear with a similar ratio to the Z3 rack. Actually I would be buying two racks (not neceasarily at the same time) one for my customer and one for me. Now that you mention its a bit "darty" or "touchy" at the highway it might be too much for my customer's M3. Perhaps the e36 M3 progressive rack would be best for him, I test it and if I don't get convinced I could order a more "wilder" rack like the Z3 or Z4? Or maybe the e46 ZHP.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1136_5):
I ran the 95 E36 M3 (3.0 Lock to Lock) rack with the AKG spacers in my old S52 OBD1 E30 M3. It was a great upgrade but it was a bit overkill for the streets as a highway weekend warrior only. Yes, it was a bit "darty". That early rack is reallly quick. I currently have an S54 E30 M3 and I kept the stock rack. I feel that it is just perfect for my weekend warrior needs. Please note that I dont track the cars so I cannot offer input in that space.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1136_6):
Originally posted by *freshm3 I ran the 95 E36 M3 (3.0 Lock to Lock) rack with the AKG spacers in my old S52 OBD1 E30 M3. It was a great upgrade but it was a bit overkill for the streets as a highway weekend warrior only. Yes, it was a bit "darty". That early rack is reallly quick. I currently have an S54 E30 M3 and I kept the stock rack. I feel that it is just perfect for my weekend warrior needs. Please note that I dont track the cars so I cannot offer input in that space. Thanks for your input. Reagrding as what rack to use I'm becoming towards the 95 e36 M3 steering as the right chocie for this street e30 M3 as maybe the Z3 rack is just "too much" or to "nervous" for highway, etc.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1136_7):
I do a lot of highway driving and the linear rack is not twitchy at all. Driving over uneven pavement the wheel does not kick back and forth, and the heavier steering feel is very nice. I am also running a 320mm wheel, so if you have a larger one the steering feel will be a bit lighter. Having both progressive and linear racks and running a 320mm and 350mm steering wheel on both setups, I like the linear rack (with power steering) and 320mm wheel best as I like how fast I can corner with less steering wheel input.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1136_8):
Originally posted by MC Hammered I do a lot of highway driving and the linear rack is not twitchy at all. Driving over uneven pavement the wheel does not kick back and forth, and the heavier steering feel is very nice. I am also running a 320mm wheel, so if you have a larger one the steering feel will be a bit lighter. Having both progressive and linear racks and running a 320mm and 350mm steering wheel on both setups, I like the linear rack (with power steering) and 320mm wheel best as I like how fast I can corner with less steering wheel input. Thanks for the feedback. Is this the one you bought? What else did you have to buy to make it fit in the car? Steering shaft spacer, whasers, bolts or even a new steering shaft universal joint? -Diego

ANSWER 10 (id: 1136_9):
That is the one I purchased and asked them to install e30 inner tie rods, if you have not replaced your outer tie rods I would suggest you order them at the same time and save some $$$. I needed to replace mine and they cost a lot more locally. It also looks like their core charge went up $20.00 since I bought mine just under a year ago, I had no core to send back so this factored into my budget. I also bought: - Part #RPKIT from akgmotorsport.com and only used the rack spacers. I did not need to use the included shortening bolts. - Ireland Engineering poly flex disc. I was going to install this part to replace the guibo when taking the steering knuckle apart to shorten it. Since the only modification needed to complete the installation was to grind away some of the knuckle to get rid of the bind I didn't bother with this. I'll update my vert build thread so show you pics of this.