QUESTION ID: 1881

QUESTION:
just got out of the hospital so I'm gonna keep it short. so it was raining tonight, and I was hitting up the usual cop-safe slide spots, but we were getting bored, doing 3rd gear slides, 2nd gear manjis, so we decided to get a little frisky and hit up some freeway ramps. big mistake. I was doing this decreasing radius transfer between the 5-N and 55-S, 4th gear, oh, say, at around 55 mph, I clutch kick initiated, was doing fine first half, but then all of the sudden WHADUMP and this huge ass manhole came outta no where and knocked my car outta balance. wham, I started spinning, and not some spin-out bullshit, no no, we're talkin 360 after 360, at least five full rotations, and then my driver side wheels whacked into the tall ass curb and sent my car rolling over and over down the ditch, caught a huge boulder and the car started flipping end over end. I broke my left arm cause the window was down and my arm ended up outside the car somehow. I don't remember the impact, the police said I was unconcious. Everything inside the car was destroyed, including my picture camera and video camera, a 12-pack of soda, my new cell phone, surprisingly though, the power top still worked perfect. I'll try to get my sister's camera tomorrow and take pics of it at the tow yard. This was a definete r3v. im going to bed now, it's been a long evening.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1881_4):
After reading through your description of the crash a few times, I sure am glad you only broke your left arm and nothing else! As long as you're ok, then it's all good. Another day, another car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1881_6):
Good to hear you that you are alive, jesus. The arm will heal and it's something you can tell your kids about. We all mess up, just take this as a learning experince. Pictures of your car will probably make me cringe, but you are lucky!

ANSWER 3 (id: 1881_8):
How exactly do you live when a convertible starts rolling? It seems like the windshield would just crumble on the first roll, and your head would be the first thing to go. Guess it makes me feel a little safer, though I don't ever plan on doing freeway drifting in the rain. But yea, pics please. I've got to see how the cabby fairs in a roll-over.