QUESTION ID: 371

QUESTION:
Finally it's suspension time. I'm lookin for something that will simulate my stock ride. Not too stiff not too free. Right now I'm leaning towards bilstien sports with H&amp;R sport springs. Any suggestions?

ANSWER 1 (id: 371_10):
I think that a lot of people have forgotten what stock is, I dont know that many people who have replaced all of there shocks with new stock ones or driven someone elses with new factory stuff and tehn driven one with hr's and bilsteins. but if you are just upgrading bushing and adding new perf. oriented tires you will feel difference there an might like that balance between stock and slighty firmer and tighter. food for thought

ANSWER 2 (id: 371_11):
Or you can wait a week, and buy my bilstein and eibach combo for $450... good ride, cheap as hell, and they had very few miles on them! (Sorry for the shameless plug)

ANSWER 3 (id: 371_12):
Originally posted by ilia Or you can wait a week, and buy my bilstein and eibach combo for $450... good ride, cheap as hell, and they had very few miles on them! (Sorry for the shameless plug) I'll vouch for the bilstein eibach combo.... but guys... this kid is selling his e30 for an evo - probably doesn't care what suspension we suggest anymore ;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 371_2):
Originally posted by ///M Powered that set-up isn't very close to stock ride comfort. :? :roll: The H&amp;R Sports are plenty soft, it will be perfect for a daily driver that still wants decent suspension

ANSWER 5 (id: 371_3):
Originally posted by MR 325 Originally posted by ///M Powered that set-up isn't very close to stock ride comfort. :? :roll: The H&amp;R Sports are plenty soft, it will be perfect for a daily driver that still wants decent suspension He wants a " simulated stock ride".

ANSWER 6 (id: 371_6):
My setup is WAY softer than that, using KYB and B+G. Cheap, low, most people like the stance, even though I don't. Nice ride. Firmer than stock, by miles, but comfortable. Would look terrific on a plastic bumper car. I am looking for a better setup in the semi-near future...Coil overs and Koni, most likely. IE bars first, though. Gonna put my stuff on my daughters e30 when that happens. Luke

ANSWER 7 (id: 371_9):
Konis ride just like stock, and I'm not exaggerating. Pair them with something with a low spring rate like H&amp;R Sports and you're set. Bilsteins ride nothing like stock.