QUESTION ID: 3605

QUESTION:
Wanted to throw this out there and see what everyone thought. I am restoring(originality restoration not complete) a 1991 318is Brilliantrot over Natur Cloth interior back to factory original with just deep cleaning and paint correction etc. I have replaced almost every single maintenance item already and well as restore the under side of her to look new. Right now it has ORIGINAL: paint, original interior, wheels, spare wheel/tire, tool kit, jack tools, M42 motor, bmw leather folder with owners manual and books, service check stickers, factory windows, no accidents, matching vin tags everywhere, true 8-9 out of 10 condition survivor. My question is this: The interior seats(Natur Cloth) are ripped in places and a lot of the front cloth fabric is off/missing in 4 places but the rest of interior is like mint. A fellow forum member steered me in the right direction to Global upholstery who actually had the factory original Natur Cloth patterns(only place I've found) in bulk material.....BUT I am wondering whether you guys think I should do this restoration of the interior or if I should leave it as is because it speaks to it's originality? Right now I just have the BMW embroidered tan front seat covers over them. In terms of value down the road and what not , even though I am keeping this is my collection for the rest of my life, just want to hear everyone's opinions and thoughts? NM a fellow forum member just sold me all the seat parts in the Natur cloth I needed for the bad areas re-do. Didn't want to redo the whole interior for 2k+ when only several places needed attention. Excited to finish her now! Thanks for the help everyone!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3605_1):
In terms of value, I think that with e30s, condition is more important than originality. Its always cool to come across an e30 that is totally original but, if the seats are in really bad shape, I would say the car would be worth less. Clean, unmodified e30s will hold their value. Whether everything is original or not is not as important.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3605_10):
It can't be that rare, I had a 318is with that same exact color combo. Seat covers are wear items just like any other part on a car. If the material can be sourced and the seats recovered then just do it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3605_11):
You're asking should you repair the torn and ripped interior? Is this really a question? If you're keeping the car for a long time then you can redo it however you want. A gray cloth sport interior would look a lot better than tan in a red car...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3605_12):
Wow....hahaha....nm, closing thread I guess with all the smart ass remarks. I didn't mean the whole interior,there's just 4 bad spots but I figured it out bc a fellow forum member just sold me all the seat parts in the cloth I needed. Didn't want to redo the whole interior for 2k+ when only several places needed attention. Btw Nando, why comment when your just going to be a disrespectful, negative, ass? Lol.... it's obvious these 318is's are becoming more and more rare so why even say that?..... makes no sense.....but thanks to everyone else who had good input I appreciate the help.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3605_13):
How is stating a fact being disrespectful? Is anyone who isn't a Pollyanna negative by default? The 318is is a great E30, but none of them are rare. I'm just being realistic.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3605_2):
its definitely going to be worth more if the seats are reupholstered. I honestly hate the original natur cloth because it always tears in the manner you described.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3605_3):
Yeah I know what you mean but when they are re-done they look awesome in Natur cloth and that color with the Brilliantrot is killer and also super rare bc I think they only put them in the last production dates of the last of the 91 318is's .

ANSWER 8 (id: 3605_7):
I guess that's my whole point, is that it is a rare 1 year option bc we know that the e30 318is is 1 year production and special to a certain extent and moreover I was trying to say that having the brilliantrot over Natur cloth interior is rare bc they didn't produce many like this and it's only in the last months of production of the 318is that they did. Guess everyone's vote it appears is to re-do the seats anyways.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3605_8):
My bad, I did not think it was that rare of an option. But my vote is still the same. If the interior is beat up, right now, these cars are not so obsecure that a re-do of the interior would hurt the value. The cars that hold the best value are rare pristine cars with low milage IMO.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3605_9):
Originally posted by Ant131313 I guess that's my whole point, is that it is a rare 1 year option bc we know that the e30 318is is 1 year production and special to a certain extent and moreover I was trying to say that having the brilliantrot over Natur cloth interior is rare bc they didn't produce many like this and it's only in the last months of production of the 318is that they did. Guess everyone's vote it appears is to re-do the seats anyways. it's not rare. They made tens of thousands of those cars worldwide - and some obscure interior color doesn't make it worth more just because it wasn't common. Some things aren't common because nobody wanted them..