QUESTION ID: 310

QUESTION:
I just got my first BMW last week and overall its in great shape but its a little rattly going over bumpy roads and the steering is a little sloppy. I am wondering what I should start looking at to replace and or upgrade. As of now the plan is to do shocks and springs next spring but I would like start getting any bushings or other wear items replaced in the meantime.

ANSWER 1 (id: 310_0):
i'm thinking of getting new control arms and bushings as i've read they should be replaced at 100k miles. How should this rate on a priority list? This is my commuter car so i'm looking to keep expenses down and do maintenance in order of importance.

ANSWER 2 (id: 310_1):
hhmmm, i have stock control arms and my car has 247,000 miles and it was driven hard by a previous owner. unless they have signs of wear and are maybe cracked or stressed i wouldnt worry about it. and about the steering, is it sloppy in the fac tthat you turn the wheel and it feels like the tires dont turn right away, or as quick as they should, or does the steering wheel actually jiggle around?

ANSWER 3 (id: 310_3):
Originally posted by MikeE30325i and about the steering, is it sloppy in the fac tthat you turn the wheel and it feels like the tires dont turn right away, or as quick as they should, or does the steering wheel actually jiggle around? Exactly, you turn the wheel and it doesn't respond right away.

ANSWER 4 (id: 310_4):
Originally posted by automatic Exactly, you turn the wheel and it doesn't respond right away. hhhmm i am new to the whole e30 thang but the steering linkage could be worn or loose, or your steering box needs to be adjusted. the latter is a little harder to do, but check the steering components and check for lose screws or worn pieces.

ANSWER 5 (id: 310_5):
Originally posted by MikeE30325i hhmmm, i have stock control arms and my car has 247,000 miles and it was driven hard by a previous owner. unless they have signs of wear and are maybe cracked or stressed i wouldnt worry about it. and about the steering, is it sloppy in the fac tthat you turn the wheel and it feels like the tires dont turn right away, or as quick as they should, or does the steering wheel actually jiggle around? I'm starting to notice that over bumps the steering wheel is actually jiggling a little to the point that you can actually hear it vibrate. I jacked it up and took a look around this weekend, it appears the ball joints, sway bar bushings, and struts are all pretty well worn out. I am going to start to piece together replacements asap.