QUESTION ID: 673

QUESTION:
I puchased a 1991 318i several years ago and drove it for the first time at night yesterday. I'll need to drive at night regularly for the foreseeable future. I panicked when I saw the color of rthe lighting. I can't even read the instruments. I'm colorblind and don't know what the color is, but I want to change it. What is involved in removing the cluster and changing out the bulbs with 3k white incandescents? What specific incandescent bulbs to use? Thanks for any help you can provide.

ANSWER 1 (id: 673_0):
Originally posted by schuetz1619 I puchased a 1991 318i several years ago and drove it for the first time at night yesterday. I'll need to drive at night regularly for the foreseeable future. I panicked when I saw the color of the lighting. I can't even read the instruments. I'm colorblind and don't know what the color is, but I want to change it. What is involved in removing the cluster and changing out the bulbs with 3k white incandescents? What specific incandescent bulbs to use? Thanks for any help you can provide. they already are white. the color comes from gels and colored plastic in front of the lighting. you might be able to change the color on the instrument cluster, but you're going to have to live with it on the hvac and center console. edit : the lighting color is red. it is red because it reduces light blindness when driving at night.

ANSWER 2 (id: 673_1):
Originally posted by 82eye they already are white. the color comes from gels and colored plastic in front of the lighting. you might be able to change the color on the instrument cluster, but you're going to have to live with it on the hvac and center console. edit : the lighting color is red. it is red because it reduces light blindness when driving at night. O.K. Important knowledge. Thank you. (1) What is involved in removing the cluster? (2) Do you know if the gels / colored plastic pieces are accessible and easily removable? Thanks again for responding.

ANSWER 3 (id: 673_2):
Originally posted by schuetz1619 O.K. Important knowledge. Thank you. (1) What is involved in removing the cluster? (2) Do you know if the gels / colored plastic pieces are accessible and easily removable? Thanks again for responding. there are loads of tutorials on removing the cluster. search both here or just google. be very careful, the mounting tabs often break on 40 yr old plastic, and new ones have gotten very expensive. once removed you'll have to take the cluster apart to expose the bulbs. they will be near the bottom under the gauges. you should be able to find the color panels once you split the cluster. iirc they are on the outside piece with the cluster glass.

ANSWER 4 (id: 673_3):
Look, there are two orange bulb covers on the cluster circuit board. You can carefully take them out. Then, send them to me instead of throwing them in trash. You can also try to rotate the light knob to increase the brightness of the lights.