QUESTION ID: 609

QUESTION:
Hello, There is a new product on Aliexpress for E30s, and it is the LCD display for the 6 button OBC being sold for $ 19.90 in the link below: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/4000...7ccb7dfapt0Qky Note: I am not affiliated with the above seller. Just thought of sharing it as it is half the price of the one available from Germany in the link below: https://partworks.de/gearworks-de-Au...eige-BC-1.html

ANSWER 1 (id: 609_0):
Hey, thank you for your finding and sharing. I have found this forum as I was looking for another supplier for the display. Have ordered one from ali as well. Hope you have made better experiences with the display than me. Received it around 40 days after shipping to nl, which is pretty okay to me. Packaging could be safer, as displays are very sensitive. Anyway, I am not satisfied. I felt the quality isn’t that good already when I have unboxed the display. Have assembled everything as shown in this video. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=julhbeMpZxY but the display didn’t work for me. I am doing almost everything by myself on my cars and replacing this display is obviously pretty easy. The display is still not showing anything to me and it made everything worse than with my old screen. wouldn’t buy again! Would appreciate recommendations :) Best regards mic

ANSWER 2 (id: 609_1):
Originally posted by limitless90 Hey, thank you for your finding and sharing. I have found this forum as I was looking for another supplier for the display. Have ordered one from ali as well. Hope you have made better experiences with the display than me. Received it around 40 days after shipping to nl, which is pretty okay to me. Packaging could be safer, as displays are very sensitive. Anyway, I am not satisfied. I felt the quality isn’t that good already when I have unboxed the display. Have assembled everything as shown in this video. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=julhbeMpZxY but the display didn’t work for me. I am doing almost everything by myself on my cars and replacing this display is obviously pretty easy. The display is still not showing anything to me and it made everything worse than with my old screen. wouldn’t buy again! Would appreciate recommendations :) Best regards mic Hi Mic, I bought the Partsworks.de lcd replacement screen. Installation was super easy. Ok, price is a bit more than the chinese part but quality is great and you can't see the difference between original and replacement screen. I would definitely recommend them and i would buy it from them again. Good luck!