QUESTION ID: 3015

QUESTION:
I've been contacted by some of you so first off thank you for the concern. We boarded up the house Friday and woke up sat morning to projections of a 125mph eye ball aimed at the bullseye on our backs. Headed straight to the last open shelter where we spent 24 hrs in a 3rd grade classroom with 32 people ranging in age from 2 weeks to 81. There's is no plan B Woke up to a sigh or relief that many of you felt. There were a couple of minor leaks where the shingles lifted, now repaired and we had some seepage in the only 2 rooms with carpet so that's going. Amazingly our next door neighbor has power so we ran a 100ft cord and have the fridge going along with TV (via antenna), led kitchen lights & a gas BBQ. We will be fine. Cell data caps are lifted so using personal hot spots. I left my cabrio ina canvas car port which did buckle from the wind. Fence stopped it from going over completely and one of the uprights his my mirror, folding it over w no damage. Good thing for concrete anchors. I do see one very tiny dimple in the rear corner where the rear post made contact. It's smaller than a pencil eraser so I'll wear it as a battle scar that tells me "this e30 survived Irma" Love you guys

ANSWER 1 (id: 3015_10):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars I have an 89yo aunt in Boca who hunkered down with her 88yo bf behind the hurricane shutters and, I assume, w lots of booze lol. She's an inspiration. ME-OWWWW!!!!!! I bet they are messing up the sheets at this very moment as I write this. Statistics say more babies are born during extended power outages because the tv doesn't work. Thank goodness for menopause...... ;)

ANSWER 2 (id: 3015_11):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars I have an 89yo aunt in Boca who hunkered down with her 88yo bf behind the hurricane shutters and, I assume, w lots of booze lol. She's an inspiration. https://youtu.be/uf7tvFEsueQ

ANSWER 3 (id: 3015_3):
Originally posted by flyboyx Thank God Jeff. Very relieved to hear that you and your fambam are fine. We've always been "fine" lol. Nice to be safe and sound too :) We were actually supposed to fly to Vancouver Sunday morning. Needless to say that didn't happen. The airlines have been great, constantly rebooking us with a full penalty waiver til November. Imagine being 3000 miles from home after Irma....ugh. We opted for the "go 10 miles, not 100" and it was one of the smarter things we've done, even if it meant being locked in an elementary school. Did you know 3rd bathrooms don't have locks on the doors ? No idea how or when people will get home w no gas ya da ya da. Yet couldmhave been SO much worse. I've got 2 big oaks here and honestly did not expect to find a roof. <kisses the ground>

ANSWER 4 (id: 3015_4):
That was a nasty storm. After living in Naples for pretty much my whole life, I moved away nearly 5 months ago and Irma was a direct hit there. The Keys got way worse, though.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3015_5):
Originally posted by flyboyx Thank God Jeff. Very relieved to hear that you and your fambam are fine. Originally posted by redsubdivisions That was a nasty storm. After living in Naples for pretty much my whole life, I moved away nearly 5 months ago and Irma was a direct hit there. The Keys got way worse, though. And we moved from Charlotte back here...well...5 months ago. Didn't want to miss hurricane season. I woke up sunday morning about 3am to total silence and figured we were in the eye, then heard on off rain and knew we were in the outer bands and had been missed. Just typing this gives me goose bumps. I am not a religious person by any means....but amen !

ANSWER 6 (id: 3015_6):
Life w 15a (1800w) is interesting. The fridge (900w) gets priority but we unplug it in the morning to make coffee (1000w) then again in the afternoon to heat up the espresso machine (1000w +300 for the grinder). The counter lights are LED and run off a switched plug so we tapped them to a surge protector w the fridge and they stay on 24/7 so we don't trip over all the extension cords. The 500w subwoofer is off but our stereo (100w) is active w pandora being piped in via my iPhone (thank you att for lifting data caps). Got the 600w rice cooker running now so the fridge is off and the box fan is down to medium. The pipes run through the attic so you get some warm water to shower...it's 86 degrees in here. Time for a glass of wine then throw some brats on the grill. I am NOT complaining.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3015_7):
Good to hear the damage is minimal. Despite underground utilities people around the corner from me have no power, but I haven't seen anyone stringing extension cords across the street.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3015_8):
Originally posted by varg Good to hear the damage is minimal. Despite underground utilities people around the corner from me have no power, but I haven't seen anyone stringing extension cords across the street. Our service is underground too but of course it's overhead to the closest poll. Oddly my next door neighbor has power but her line comes from the other direction. We ran 100ft 10guage cord over the fence so have good voltage but it's gonna get old soon. I have an 89yo aunt in Boca who hunkered down with her 88yo bf behind the hurricane shutters and, I assume, w lots of booze lol. She's an inspiration.