QUESTION ID: 2059

QUESTION:
Anyone in southeast ga, north Florida that has a spare 173 ecu I can test in my car. I think my ecu may be shot. I ran through the whole troubleshoot guide for crank and no-start and everything checks out. Not getting power to fuel pumps while cranking so I’m thinking the ecu may be toast.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2059_0):
I have a 525 that will work. I live in the upper part of the state of SC. Have you checked your relays? Fuel pump fuse? Have you recently upgraded your fuel pump? I had similar issue awhile back. My main relay would cause a no crank issue when the car was hot. I mistakenly thought my fuel pump went out. I had a walbro laying around so I swap it out. My car started and then died after about 10 min or so. I borrowed my buddies Main relay and the car ran fine for about another 10 mins and it died again. The following day I was looking online and found out the 7.5 amp fuse was not enough for the walbro, plus I believe BMW switch these fuses out for a bigger one sometime in the build history. After I put in a 15 amp fuse (which was also what my buddies 91 vert has for a stock pump) the car ran and drove fine. My only other issue was a overcharging alternator which was weird.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2059_1):
The 173 ECU is very stout and reliable. In 20+ years with e30's, I have yet to hear of one failing in a stock setup. That doesn't mean it's impossible, but it's pretty unlikely

ANSWER 3 (id: 2059_2):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella The 173 ECU is very stout and reliable. In 20+ years with e30's, I have yet to hear of one failing in a stock setup. That doesn't mean it's impossible, but it's pretty unlikely I'm thinking it's a relay

ANSWER 4 (id: 2059_3):
I’m thinking it’s a relay as well. Jumped the fuel pump relay and got fuel to the rail. Getting power to the dme relay but still getting a crank no start. Reading through the Bible now and diagnosing. I have another relay here and it doesn’t seem to change anything. Dme doesn’t seem to be sending power to the fuel pump relay. I’ll try a 15amp fuse also

ANSWER 5 (id: 2059_4):
Originally posted by Pinapplco I’m thinking it’s a relay as well. Jumped the fuel pump relay and got fuel to the rail. Getting power to the dme relay but still getting a crank no start. Reading through the Bible now and diagnosing. I have another relay here and it doesn’t seem to change anything. Dme doesn’t seem to be sending power to the fuel pump relay. I’ll try a 15amp fuse also Try a new fuel pump relay and main relay at the same time. Also check your FPR on the rail. Make sure the fuel filter isn't clogged. Are getting spark? How old are your ignition wires and plugs. If none of the ignition has been replaced in a long time it might be time to do a full on tune up.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2059_5):
Fuel pump is new - both of them. Wires and plugs look decent. Fuel filter is new. Fuel is going to the fuel rail with a jumper cable. New relays on the way. No power at pin 27 with key in on position. 18 has power. Main relay has power at 30 and 86. Fuel relay has power at 30 and 86.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2059_8):
Got her running. Traced pin 27 to the OBC and cut the green wire/green red wire and spliced them. Fuel pumps turned on with key in on position. Cranked nothing. Cranked again she sputtered. Cranked a third time and she fired up. Now I gotta go through and fix vacuum leaks and put an o2 sensor in so it doesn’t run like shit.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2059_9):
Originally posted by Pinapplco Got her running. Traced pin 27 to the OBC and cut the green wire/green red wire and spliced them. Fuel pumps turned on with key in on position. Cranked nothing. Cranked again she sputtered. Cranked a third time and she fired up. Now I gotta go through and fix vacuum leaks and put an o2 sensor in so it doesn’t run like shit. Awesome. I forgot about the OBC causing a no start issue. I'm glad it worked out.