QUESTION ID: 2144

QUESTION:
Thank you everyone for the patience during our several day migration to the new version of vBulletin! This has been a major project involving months of planning and testing. I know some of you really appreciated the simplicity of the previous version (as did I) but it has approached end of support and for security / compatibility it was in our best interest to upgrade. If you see any major issues please let me know. TapaTalk should be enabled in a day or so as they fix a weird API issue that keeps cropping up. Enjoy! --James

ANSWER 1 (id: 2144_10):
Originally posted by JGood You have to go into your account settings and check the box for "show signatures". Thanks, I was trying to figure out what happened, this brought them back, but I can't seem to find where to edit your signature in your user profile anymore.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2144_11):
Originally posted by Zeemz Thanks, I was trying to figure out what happened, this brought them back, but I can't seem to find where to edit your signature in your user profile anymore. It's literally right below that check box. "Edit post signature". The link opens a pop-up window.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2144_12):
Originally posted by JGood It's literally right below that check box. "Edit post signature". The link opens a pop-up window. I am an idiot....Thank you.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2144_4):
Thanks for all of the hard work James. After 15 years of almost daily use on the old style, the new interface will take a bit of getting used to, but it sounds like a good move, and it may even end up being nicer to use.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2144_5):
Originally posted by JGood Thanks for all of the hard work James. After 15 years of almost daily use on the old style, the new interface will take a bit of getting used to, but it sounds like a good move, and it may even end up being nicer to use. Precisely, glad it's back, layout on PC looks good! Only item of note I've seen so far is hanging at the bottom of the page/not being able to scroll back up on Android Firefox.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2144_6):
Originally posted by JGood Thanks for all of the hard work James. After 15 years of almost daily use on the old style, the new interface will take a bit of getting used to, but it sounds like a good move, and it may even end up being nicer to use. This. Thanks for keeping this forum alive!

ANSWER 7 (id: 2144_8):
Can we bring back the location tab on the username header? That is always useful in the classifieds section and seems to have gone missing in the update

ANSWER 8 (id: 2144_9):
Originally posted by Jordan Where did everyones signature pics go? You have to go into your account settings and check the box for "show signatures". Although James should be able to default everybody to 'on', if he wishes. Another function that I found had become disabled was "Subscribe when posting". Originally posted by downforce22 Can we bring back the location tab on the username header? That is always useful in the classifieds section and seems to have gone missing in the update Good call, that is a nice feature.