QUESTION ID: 2211

QUESTION:
Got my 91' back from paint. Everything mechanically has been fixed except for ignition column. Waiting on parts for it to ship.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2211_1):
Thank you i like those wheels a lot. I have a white e30 that will be finished painted soon as well. It likely will be a daily ish car. Have a 85' i want to say euro e30 that needs to be restored as well. It will be track car

ANSWER 2 (id: 2211_10):
Im in middle tn near Nashville. No major body work just dings. But these cars even when taken care of are soo old they have really hard clears that are fading etc...to get a super shiny job takes a ton of labor. My guy actually gave me a good deal as it went over and he kept me at the price but it was several k over when all said. He also did the headliner which looks awesome. It was a catuned headliner that was custom refit to a new headliner panel and the a,b, and c pillars were done to match. Taylor's colors near Murfreesboro. He has a video montage of my car on his Facebook.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2211_11):
Originally posted by Bottombunk Im in middle tn near Nashville. No major body work just dings. But these cars even when taken care of are soo old they have really hard clears that are fading etc...to get a super shiny job takes a ton of labor. My guy actually gave me a good deal as it went over and he kept me at the price but it was several k over when all said. He also did the headliner which looks awesome. It was a catuned headliner that was custom refit to a new headliner panel and the a,b, and c pillars were done to match. Taylor's colors near Murfreesboro. He has a video montage of my car on his Facebook. Awesome. Thank you. I currently live in Charlotte but grew up in Memphis, so I am familiar with Murfreesboro.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2211_5):
Originally posted by Bottombunk This was 10k and it was a deal. Holy crap. I was budgeting about 5k. I guess I should be prepared for some hefty estimates

ANSWER 5 (id: 2211_6):
You can get paint for that price but expect to see some issues. I have a no compromise attitude towards older cars getting paint and body. Not to mention what we typically think is good body generally has more issues then one would consider ones sanded down etc...

ANSWER 6 (id: 2211_8):
That is stock red. It just looks good when done to a higher quality of course. My white one that is in between being painted is obv just the alpine white. Granted i like the color but lets be real ultimately it is still just white. My grey one is a legit beater. Once ive re-done the driver floor and replace a few exterior seals ill get it painted as well but likely bmw purple or nardo gray.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2211_9):
Originally posted by Bottombunk This was 10k and it was a deal. Beautiful! Haters love to hate on red cars, but Brilliant Red is by far my favorite E30 color. Thank you for posting the cost - where are you located and was there any serious bodywork/rust repair in the cost? Thanks, Cory