QUESTION ID: 3259

QUESTION:
I posted this earlier, but I think it accidentally got flagged as spam or something. ------------ Personally, I think that body kit has a chance at looking amazing without the testarossa vents/ribs on the sides. (ducks) But the owner clearly lost his marbles when it came to the wheels, lambo doors and "ice". Oh, the CL ad is here if you're interested (no affiliation): https://losangeles.craigslist.org/ws...881345276.html

ANSWER 1 (id: 3259_0):
Wow. Just. Wow. o.0 Not sure those doors would help in a tight parking spot, even for my fairly small body structure. Shop invoice software usually has spell checker, no? EDIT: $22k in case anyone wants to know, the ad won't be there forever.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3259_11):
Originally posted by george graves You had to quote the entire post just to make a comment? What the f is this? Internet skills from 2001? (just messing with you!) Well, fuk. You got me. Tapatalk skills are zero lol Sent from my SM-G920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3259_12):
Originally posted by varg -Body kit that doesn't fit well -Brightly colored cone filter -Many dollars spent but half-assed the paint job You just described most "drift" car. Originally posted by rich4rdee Bavaria Auto Raepair How the fuck do you not notice when the title of your business is misspelled? I'm not sure those invoices are fake. Could be. But I'm guessing you pay extra for "spilling" - oh I mean spelling.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3259_5):
This thing is like a checklist for the hallmarks in bad automotive taste. -Oversized shiny wheels -Scissor doors -TV screens -Strange exhaust tip -Body kit that doesn't fit well -Brightly colored cone filter -Many dollars spent but half-assed the paint job Also I think the upholstery has smallpox.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3259_6):
^^^Didn't want to be over-bearing on the nit-picking and actually deleted my first writings lol. Bit my tongue instead of referencing fun-house mirrors, audio wires bundled on the floor, crooked body panels. Jordan did a similar kit, but was actually nicely crafted - this looks like a one weekend throw together. Still wondering if the invoices are legitimate, Bavarian Auto Repair has a nice website and looks like a much different level of work and appears the invoices are for parts only - just strange with all the misspelled words, they have been in business for 30yrs, someone should have noticed "signature" was spelled wrong. George, I was thinking the same thing while scrolling through the pics....again ahha.