QUESTION ID: 1960

QUESTION:
project to replace parts in '86 E30, starting with cooling system hoses. Hoping for OE or same quality at lowest prices and reasonable customer service. California. Which online shops have the most variety of OE parts at good prices and customer service? I found these folks but no references bmwdiscountparts.com Others like pelican parts, fcp euro are also mentioned Of course BMW dealer is last ditch option.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1960_0):
FCP and Pelican probably your best bet for OE stuff. Or find you someone who collects parts and buy from them (I have this arrangement from time to time). Junk yard. ECS will have stuff as well.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1960_1):
The market is getting odd for parts suppliers, in that I've had to order stuff from several different places to get everything I need. FCP is expensive due to their lifetime "store credit" warranty, but have access to some original equipment manufacture suppliers that others don't, so you can save with that tactic. Seems that whoever is the big daddy supplier is limiting who has access to what. For example, FCP was the only place recently who had Rein/Meyle coolant hoses, so they got the coolant hose order. I've been using bimmers.com a ton recently due to killer pricing, free shipping and a rewards program. Great prices on genuine BMW stuff too if they have it. I bought Cohline and Gates power steering hoses recently. FCP's price on the same exact brand/Part number was $306. I got the *Same Exact* thing (same brands, same part number) on bimmers.com for $159. Confusing, but really pays to spend a few minutes and shop around. RMEuropean also has great pricing for genuine BMW stuff. I rarely use ECS/Pelican/Turner any more- it's typically some combination of bimmers.com, RMEuropean, and FCP. ECS has a terrible method of calculating stock and lead times, so I've been pushed away after so much stuff that doesn't show up. Bimmers.com has been the new ECS for me, and has been flawless, even finding stuff that shows discontinued on the other common sites. (no skin in the game, have just been really happy with them for hoopty v2)

ANSWER 3 (id: 1960_10):
Good catch - I have purchased from both AutoHausAZ (https://www.autohausaz.com)​ and Bimmerworld (https://www.bimmerworld.com) and have added them to my list. Thanks! I have found a couple of small parts at Schmiedman that I could not find in the US. It is also good for tracking down and verifying part numbers that are NLA and not shown on realOEM. I can’t remember if it was.Schmiedman or another European vendor, but because of some European shipping restrictions I had to have a part shipped to a contact in the Netherlands, who then re-shipped it to the US. It was a lot of logistics work, but the part in question was unavailable anywhere else. I have found that Pelican Parts seems to be one of the only vendors that will order parts from Germany that are unavailable in North America. They charge a 10% surcharge and it can take several months, but they can get the parts no one else in the US is able to obtain.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1960_11):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I've been using bimmers.com a ton recently due to killer pricing, free shipping and a rewards program. Great prices on genuine BMW stuff too if they have it. i get nothing but 403 errors and a web warning for a scam site there

ANSWER 5 (id: 1960_12):
Originally posted by 82eye i get nothing but 403 errors and a web warning for a scam site there No issues on my end. Have done 10ish orders there now.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1960_13):
Originally posted by AWDBOB No issues on my end. Have done 10ish orders there now. i dunno what's going on. it's their site that is doing the blocking from what i can tell. wonder if they only allow US or something

ANSWER 7 (id: 1960_3):
Thank you for your input. I guess these things are gettting harder to get parts. It was not long ago, I was able to head over the the local Pick and Pull and pull parts for pennies on the dollar. The biggest miss was an IS that had excellent seats, the nice ones. When I arrived another vulture had laid claim and yanking all the good stuff off.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1960_4):
Ive been using schmiedmann for roughly 8 years, obviously they're stones throw from Munich so they get their special order parts fast. They also sell a lot of non gen Work well getting stuff to Aus at least. If you have your own part numbers you can pop them in the search bar and get a range of options usually.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1960_5):
These are places I have ordered from for original or OEM parts: Pelican Parts (https://www.pelicanparts.com) Turner motorsport (https://www.turnermotorsport.com) ECS Tuning (https://www.ecstuning.com) (I think pelican and Turner are owned by ECS now) FCP Euro (https://www.fcpeuro.com) BMW Parts Deal (https://www.bmwpartsdeal.com) BMW Mini Parts Store (https://www.thebmwminipartstore.com/) RM European (https://www.rmeuropean.com/) BluntTech (https://www.blunttech.com) Schmiedmann (https://www.schmiedmann.com) eEuroparts (https://eeuroparts.com) Race German (https://racegerman.com) Braman BMW Parts (http://parts.bramanmotorsbmw.com) Maximillian Importing Company (https://www.bmwmobiletradition-online.com/) (like RealOEM diagrams, but call before placing order to confirm). Added per comments below (thanks!): AutoHausAZ (https://www.autohausaz.com)​ Bimmerworld (https://www.bimmerworld.com)​ There are a lot more, including eBay, which can be a good resource for hard to find, NLA, and otherwise near-unobtainable new and used parts. ​

ANSWER 10 (id: 1960_6):
Robert, nice list. Your profile shows in in SoCal. Schmiedman is in Europe. Have they been competitive and offer good/better selection than the US companies?

ANSWER 11 (id: 1960_7):
Robert's list is complete, only one I'd add would be: AutoHausAZ (https://www.autohausaz.com) And I've actually purchased a few things from places like etsy or amazon, but just remember to do your research or make sure returns are accepted if the part isn't what you were expecting.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1960_8):
Originally posted by windtrader Robert, nice list. Your profile shows in in SoCal. Schmiedman is in Europe. Have they been competitive and offer good/better selection than the US companies? I recently bought some small new OEM parts for an E39 off them, because they were more than 50% cheaper than anything I could find in the states. And that includes all the extra shipping and fees, so may not be worth it for larger items. Every thing I ordered fit in a ~3x3x3 box. They sell used parts including euro versions too. Bimmers prices seem pretty standard although I found some of their OEM suspension pre-assembled packages have some crazy discounts. I've found myself using FCPeuro more recently. Pelican has good delivery times for the west coast, but everything seems 10-25% more than I can get else where.

ANSWER 13 (id: 1960_9):
Bimmerworld is a top choice for OEM, aftermarket, and racing parts, and they are one of the few big parts houses that remains independently (and enthusiast, racer) owned.