QUESTION ID: 2607

QUESTION:
I'm looking to overhaul my cooling system, and have been looking at the ECS cooling kit. https://www.ecstuning.com/b-assemble...11531722218kt/ I know that ECS isn't the 1st choice for most on the forum, but wanted to see if anyone has purchased this kit or other kits. Or should I just piece together all the parts from FCP or another site? Any directed is greatly appreciated

ANSWER 1 (id: 2607_0):
Most people on here don't like ECS but I've used them a lot in the past and have had very few issues with them. The kit you have there doesn't look too bad. I've never used Geba before but a quick search shows they are a German company. Gates or Graf would be other acceptable options for water pumps. The only real concern is that the hoses are made by URO parts. Its probably not a big deal since they are just hoses and not mechanical parts BUT, generally speaking, URO parts should be avoided at all costs.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2607_1):
I suggest piecing it together from a different vendor like FCP Euro, this will also allow you to avoid any parts of the kit you might not need. You really should avoid Uro whenever possible. It's at least worth it to price out the difference from another vendor.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2607_10):
Originally posted by Vincenze Genuine hoses are mostly made by Continental. Rein and CRP are trade marks of Continental and cost 25-50% of the Genuine parts prices. The BMW logo is usually blackened by a pen. Maybe, I believe Elaplast was OEM for older stuff..

ANSWER 4 (id: 2607_11):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Yup, sucks. But I’m Still dealing with Same sales guys at turner I’ve been dealing with for years. And I’m sure those sales benefit them. I’m saying if you must buy from ECS at least go thru turner. Cool, makes sense. It really sucks that Turner has created some great in-house products over the years and now the only place to get them is through the ECS chain. What surprised me was learning about Pelican Parts becoming an ECS site – guess they wanted to keep that quiet as ECS doesn't have a great reputation on boards like these.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2607_12):
Originally posted by radr What surprised me was learning about Pelican Parts becoming an ECS site – guess they wanted to keep that quiet as ECS doesn't have a great reputation on boards like these. I think that Pelican and ECS are one of the greatest websites because they show actual photos of most parts. If they show a part in stock and then it happens to be backordered or even discontinued, you have to live with it as the E30 is classic now.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2607_13):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Maybe, I believe Elaplast was OEM for older stuff.. I just looked at the new genuine top hose to the radiator. The ID has "Conti" in it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2607_4):
Why do you need a new radiator from that kit? It's expensive. Can't you run through it a radiator flush like Blue Devil? This kit has only hoses and clamps. https://www.pelicanparts.com/More_In...0201&DID=46402 Even new clamps are not necessary if the old ones are good. Plus a new water pump and different gaskets and thermostat.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2607_5):
Take the time and piece it yourself. Bet you'll spend way less. Also, just echoing others, do not use URO radiator hoses. URO is not a quality parts company

ANSWER 9 (id: 2607_6):
Check out Guten parts or Bluntech. They care much more about our Little E30 scene than ECS / FCP. If I have to order from ECS I go thru Turner. Old radiators are just asking to be replaced. Anything old and plastic that’s in the engine bay will deteriorate. Most these cars have been neglected till and enthusiast comes along wanting everything up to snuff. Most rubber bits are becoming URO or genuine. Genuine will always be the better part. Just be cautious if you have to go URO. The idea is to not do the job again anytime soon because something failed prematurely.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2607_7):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Check out Guten parts or Bluntech. They care much more about our Little E30 scene than ECS / FCP. If I have to order from ECS I go thru Turner. Just FYI in case you didn't know – ECS bought Turner's parts department. The race team is still as was, but the Turner parts site is literally just a skin on ECS. ECS = Turner parts = Pelican Parts. Turner parts has nothing to do with Will Turner and co.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2607_8):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Most rubber bits are becoming URO or genuine. Genuine will always be the better part. Genuine hoses are mostly made by Continental. Rein and CRP are trade marks of Continental and cost 25-50% of the Genuine parts prices. The BMW logo is usually blackened by a pen.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2607_9):
Originally posted by radr Just FYI in case you didn't know – ECS bought Turner's parts department. The race team is still as was, but the Turner parts site is literally just a skin on ECS. ECS = Turner parts = Pelican Parts. Turner parts has nothing to do with Will Turner and co. Yup, sucks. But I’m Still dealing with Same sales guys at turner I’ve been dealing with for years. And I’m sure those sales benefit them. I’m saying if you must buy from ECS at least go thru turner.