QUESTION ID: 1286

QUESTION:
My car is a 1990 Vert. Well, I have found that I have a leak. I originally thought it was the top as I had a leak a couple years ago and fixed it. But, the top isn't leaking. I find that my passenger side carpet is wet, but the top isn't leaking. Strangely enough, the carpet is wet but the floor mat is not wet, just the carpet underneath it. The driver side is dry. Any help to try and pinpoint where this water could be leaking in would be appreciated. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1286_0):
Maybe the drain where fresh air comes in at the base of the windshield is clogged? There's a rubbery tube coming through the firewall if I recall correctly. It tapers to a flat opening. Give it a squeeze sideways to open up the taper and let any debris escape. Depending on how much debris is in there, it may need some assistance with a tool to come out. Drain hose is #5 in this diagram from realoem: https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=64_0087 MM

ANSWER 2 (id: 1286_1):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem Maybe the drain where fresh air comes in at the base of the windshield is clogged? There's a rubbery tube coming through the firewall if I recall correctly. It tapers to a flat opening. Give it a squeeze sideways to open up the taper and let any debris escape. Depending on how much debris is in there, it may need some assistance with a tool to come out. Drain hose is #5 in this diagram from realoem: https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=64_0087 MM OK, thanks, I will give that a look.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1286_2):
What I like to do to find an interior leak is blast the blower with the windows closed and hold something sensitive to air flow, like smoke for example and run what ever it is you decided to use along all the rubber seams and look for any agitation

ANSWER 4 (id: 1286_4):
Originally posted by cory58 Assuming front passenger side, not rear? It's actually both front and rear passenger, but my car is parked slightly on a slope. Actually the rear was slightly worse than the front. Also, I confirmed for sure, it isn't the roof. It rained hard last week and I got in car and felt all around the inside of the top, no drips or wet spots. Strangely enough, I noticed a lot of condensation in the trunk as well but the floor and carpet in the trunk was dry. This is driving me a little batty. I really want to solve the problem but can't even figure out where to start!!!