QUESTION ID: 432

QUESTION:
Hello everyone, I've started working on something fun and I could use your feedback! I had been looking for a head unit for my 635csi and started to become frustrated with the available options. Original BMW radios from the era are now getting silly expensive (in Europe, anyway) and the functionality is lacking by modern standards. There are aftermarket "retro" options, but they really aren't that perfect of a match for BMW's design language of the era. Not to mention that they are still missing many features we take for granted these days, and are also expensive for what they are. So... I decided to design and build my own, and here is what I have come up with. The front panel's texture, switches, and knob match the 80s-90s BMW design perfectly, and the small screen that is incorporated is deliberately small so that it does not look out of place in these classic models. The software's graphical interface which I am working on takes inspiration from the first BMW OBC monitors which appeared with the e38 7 Series in 1996 (slightly later than our e24 and related models, but still old enough to not look inappropriate from a design perspective.) The screen is to have an alternative, purely monochrome orange/black mode if the user would prefer to have an even more classic appearance. As it stands we have a working prototype with a few technical issues left to solve relating to the audio processing and power supply. Any suggestions from the community will certainly be helpful in further development, I would love to know what features you guys find most useful in a device like this and what you find irritating about the currently available solutions. Let me know what you think!

ANSWER 1 (id: 432_0):
Dude, this is pretty cool. I recently been looking around for a head unit to replace my blaupunkt monterey cdm83. The faceplate been dead for a while, but radio/cd/cd changer work fine. I really just want something with blue tooth personally. No amps or fancy stuff. stock speakers. Looked into the emulators some folks have made to trick the unit into think there is a cd changer connected - at which point you use the RCA (red/white) hook ups to a blue tooth receiver to pump your jams. I think the current selection of head units is kinda meh. I don't really buy the hype with the flagship pioneer and blaupunkt units. Seems they have redundant buttons, missing basic features like usb charging for phones (would be helpful in my e30 at least), and priced as a premium product when in reality just licensed and produce "cheaply" overseas (units should be half the price in my opinion) I ended up finding on ebay, a Blaupunk Verona CR43 that had a bluetooth mod done to it. I know nothing about how or why it was done, I was only searching "blaupunkt blutooth" to see what came up. easy $150. looking forward to figuring out and updating my wiring harness to the ISO standard from whatever 15 pin goofy blaupunkt used on the monterey. To give you a lil feed back on your project - super cool man, looks like your first post welcome. thanks for sharing. Love the project. I'd love a head unit that looks like your photos, that displays time,date,temp, memo (to replace 6-button OBC to make room for other gear in it's place) and take bluetooth connections readily. Basic FM/AM radio. With a screen like that - I bet there's all kinds of things people would like to see there. Weather station, volt meters, music play back info etc. I don't know - seems like there's some potential there. Keep us posted. Very cool, thanks for reading, thanks for sharing! Cheers.

ANSWER 2 (id: 432_1):
This is super cool. I have the Continental unit and I think it is very mediocre. Here's what I personally want in my next radio: - Matches the interior red lighting of my car (E30) - Flush with the control panel. I know adaptor plates exist but I don't have one. - A radio tuner knob. And not just the seek button, but the ability to set any frequency - A toggle switch for the antenna deployment Wishing you all good luck.