QUESTION ID: 1750

QUESTION:
I have a sterling silver 318is but the paint is absolutely trashed and needs to be redone. I’ve always been in love with Techno Violet but I’m not sure if it would look out of place on an E30. Anyone have input? Should I repaint the car to it’s factory color or follow my dreams and do Techno Violet?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1750_0):
How the car looks now. The paint looks better in these pictures than it actually is. pretty sure the PO spray painted it or something. Regardless, it looks terrible.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1750_10):
There was rustproofing done 15 years ago and engine bay looked terrible…I tried to remove it with various chemicals but original base coat eventually came with it…

ANSWER 3 (id: 1750_12):
Oh man that touring looks fantastic. I’m budgeting about 5-6 grand for a repaint. Anyone know if that’s feasible for decent paint job? Last time I got a car painted was 10 years ago and it certainly wasn’t something like Techno Violet. Is a Techno Violet job more pricey because the door jambs and engine bay also need paint? Or is it the type of paint that’s applied?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1750_2):
Daytonaviolett Metallic (283) is an original e30 color. I'd love to get it on a touring with an mtech 2 kit. BMW E30 paint codes, color options https://bimmertips.com/bmw-e30-paint-codes-color-options/ BMW E30 paint codes and color options: The below list is the most comprehensive known paint colors we could compile. BMW did not publish a list publicly

ANSWER 5 (id: 1750_3):
Oh I didn’t even know about Daytona Violet existed! That’s also a great looking color. I’m curious how well paint shops can replicate these colors. Anyone know how they get the paint? Directly from BMW?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1750_4):
Yes good paint shop can get exact color code. I don’t know for E30 but on E46, OEM paint was made by Glasurit. If you do a color change, it’s worth to completely remove all trims from the car and paint the engine bay color match. You can get stickers for engine bay on Ebay for the E30 so paint job will look original after with the new paint color code/name sticker on shock tower.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1750_5):
if you really like the colour i'd do it. why not ? seen a couple e30 pics of cars with newer bmw colours i liked. it's true a colour change is more involved if you want it done right though.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1750_6):
If you want to compare DaytonaViolet and TechnoViolet: The Definitive Daytona Violet vs. Techno Violet E36 M3 Comparison https://bmwi.bimmerpost.com/forums/showthread.php?t=1904084 The Definitive Daytona Violet vs. Techno Violet E36 M3 Comparison

ANSWER 9 (id: 1750_7):
I personally prefer the original Sterlingsilber color to Techno/Daytonaviolet, but I like “boring” colors on my cars. If you ever end up needing to sell the car, it would be a better idea to paint the car in the color (or a close enough match) it came out of from the factory. Just a note that Sterlingsilber is much easier to keep clean vs Daytona/Technoviolet. It will also get much hotter in clear sunlight, being a dark color. At the end of the day, it’s your car so you’re liable for all of the consequences of whichever decision you choose to go with.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1750_8):
Nice color but a color change is obviously considerably more expensive than an external repaint in the OE color. I'm pretty sure I'd rather get another car than change mine to a color I like when I restore it; I'm not a fan of the metal flake black since it looks good but is the hardest color to keep and very hot.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1750_9):
You can cut cost of a complete paint job by bringing the car to the paint shop with all trims and bumpers already removed from the car. You can also paint the engine bay yourself. I just did it on my E46 M3 LSB with base coat and satin clear coat rattle cans and it turn out good I think: