QUESTION ID: 314

QUESTION:
Pardon Our Interruption... http://cgi.ebay.com/ebaymotors/NEW-BMW-E30-Steering-Suspension-Kit-325-e-es-i-is-ic_W0QQitemZ8007161209QQcategoryZ33583QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem thoughts?

ANSWER 1 (id: 314_0):
I always thought Tokico was lower than average quality as far as E30 aftermarket shocks/spring go, but ignoring that fact you're getting a lot of parts for the money. Separately, the cheapest you can get all those parts is still easily over $800. I personally wouldn't buy the kit, but for someone on a tight budget who NEEDS all those parts replaced soon, I guess it's a good deal.

ANSWER 2 (id: 314_10):
Thanks for the answer, Peavey. Also one of the reasons I was even looking at this kit was because I have a bent strut up front on my passenger side and thought it might be a good idea to put the suspension through a basic refresher while I had the car up on stands.

ANSWER 3 (id: 314_11):
Good stuff IMO I just picked up a kit from this seller for $130 which included their front control arms with ball joints, and the control arm bushings. I installed them two days ago and I'm very happy with the results. The ball joints are better designed than stock in that they have an allen key machined into the top, which allows you to keep the ball joint from spinning while tightening/loosening the nut. Might not seem like a big deal, but it makes working on your suspension MUCH easier. Casting was equal or better than stock. Bushings also were an excellent fit. Very tight. I used some anti-sieze lubricant to help slide the control arm nipple into the center of the bushing, and to keep it from potentially squeeking. THhe pictures on e-bay are accurate regarding appearance. I've attached a picture of the label that was on the package. I would have gotten the package you posted, but my tie rods are in good shape and I'd prefer a different suspension. Can't comment on durability as they're new parts, but overall a great buy. Attached Files

ANSWER 4 (id: 314_12):
I have those same control arms (Karlyn) on my 318i, they have been on for 4 months now, and have many miles so far for the price they are great. Once these go I will buy them again. However, my 318i is not autox, or driven very hard, soo I dunno, but on a street car they are fine. Beau

ANSWER 5 (id: 314_13):
Originally posted by Bread I just picked up a kit from this seller for $130 which included their front control arms with ball joints, and the control arm bushings. I installed them two days ago and I'm very happy with the results. The ball joints are better designed than stock in that they have an allen key machined into the top, which allows you to keep the ball joint from spinning while tightening/loosening the nut. Might not seem like a big deal, but it makes working on your suspension MUCH easier. Casting was equal or better than stock. Bushings also were an excellent fit. Very tight. I used some anti-sieze lubricant to help slide the control arm nipple into the center of the bushing, and to keep it from potentially squeeking. THhe pictures on e-bay are accurate regarding appearance. I've attached a picture of the label that was on the package. I would have gotten the package you posted, but my tie rods are in good shape and I'd prefer a different suspension. Can't comment on durability as they're new parts, but overall a great buy. Well, I can comment on the quality now since it has almost been a year since installation of the Karlyn parts. The balljoints and lower arm are still tight and move smoothly. The rear bushings however SUCK. The drivers' side just broke loose this week, allowing the wheel to shift back and forth when braking. So, I can't recommend the Karlyn bushings. I'm going to pick up a set of OEM bushings from pelican parts.

ANSWER 6 (id: 314_3):
hell go check his feedback and find someone who purchased the same thing and contact them see if they like them or whatever...anyways ive found the same exact setup on ebay for around 400 now i wouldnt mind wasting 400 bucks for all that shit to see if its worth it why the fuck not your gonna spend almost a grand to get all that stuff from other places

ANSWER 7 (id: 314_4):
The tokico stuff I bought from ebay. I ended up finding some better stuff for cheaper and sold the tokico stuff to a friend installed for 450 (bought it for 330) The tokico stuff isn't bad. Its an upgrade over stock.... But its not a race suspension. Its very very soft.... just like stock but it gives a bit better appearance. thats about all I could say after putting it on his car. He was happy cause he had blown struts and heated springs. As far as the control arms and such.... I wrote and asked that guy what brand they are..... they are karlyn? Yeah..... mmhmmm.

ANSWER 8 (id: 314_5):
Originally posted by marakka As far as the control arms and such.... I wrote and asked that guy what brand they are..... they are karlyn? Yeah..... mmhmmm. this is the issue. the CAs and Tie-rods are off brand. or not the one you need to be getting Ledemforder (sp?). That brand and that brand solely. Don't trust any others. you want to roadrace and going to go with second-rate offbrand parts for your tie rods???

ANSWER 9 (id: 314_6):
Originally posted by rwh11385 it's an ebay suspension kit..... what advice do you need to hear besides no? you're going to trust some ebay control arms and tie rods????? OK EBay makes suspension parts now? Awesome. Way to generalize.

ANSWER 10 (id: 314_8):
I was just asking about the quality since I am not in the "know" about certain brands. I don't know about every make and model of all parts. So if you want to start bitching just because I wanted to know if anyone else has had an experience with this shit then keep it to yourself, thank you.

ANSWER 11 (id: 314_9):
1. Heeter (rwh11385) is a queer. 2. If the brand is anything other than Lemfoerder (sp?) you probably shouldnt buy it. I didnt know that at first either. Thats why you ask this type of question. Dont worry about the bitching, theyre just blunt people. Another common brand you see is Meyle. Meyle isnt the best quality. Lemfoerder is the company that makes the parts for BMW and thats why it is seen as the best one to pick. Check www.bmaparts.com and see their prices on things. And IMHO its always best to ask. What if you would have paid $400 for that and everyone says its junk? Then youre out $400. Will