QUESTION ID: 3143

QUESTION:
A challenge I am attempting this summer. 30 Countries in 30 Days in an E30. The idea behind the '30in30' challenge is to: 1) Highlight the fantastic community of enthusiasts the E30 has created in Europe and document such via a daily vlog (YouTube), web blog and social media updates throughout the trip. Go to local meetups, runs etc... 2) Raise funds for 3 charities. The route is yet to be finalised and even when the challenge begins it may still be changed, however, it is looking like we will be visiting; Ireland - UK - France - Luxembourg - Belgium - Netherlands - Germany - Denmark - Sweden - Norway - Finland - Estonia - Latvia - Lithuania - Poland - Czech Republic - Austria - Slovakia - Hungary - Romania - Bulgaria - Macedonia - Greece - Albania - Montenegro - Croatia - Slovenia - Italy - Switzerland - Spain Am I mad attempting such a trip in an E30? Possibly Will the E30 break down somewhere along the route? Definitely Some more info can be found here: http://E30owners.com/30in30 Cheers, John

ANSWER 1 (id: 3143_0):
This looks like a challenge. 30 Countries in 30 Days. It is definitely a challenge I would follow. I am not going to wish you luck, since I really trust the E30 chassis, but I wish that you thoroughly enjoy the journey and meet lots of fellow enthusiasts. Please update here too. Cheers!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3143_10):
Took my e30 through 27 states this past fall, roughly 3 weeks. Only problems were a headlight bulb going out and the HVAC resistor started acting up. Really wanted to do some driving through Canada, but forgot my passport.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3143_2):
That sounds awesome. Something I'd really like to do myself. Of course, it's hard to do that here in the US. When I read the title, I knew immediately you must be in Europe.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3143_3):
This sounds really awesome. Honestly, my biggest fantasy is to take an e30 on a road trip around the world to visit as many countries and exotic places as I could get to. Good luck!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3143_5):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 That sounds awesome. Something I'd really like to do myself. Of course, it's hard to do that here in the US. When I read the title, I knew immediately you must be in Europe. States work too. Particularly the big ones in the West.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3143_8):
I've always wanted to a trip literally around North America. Starting from Ontario, take a route that goes the farthest north and west to the west coast, going as far as possible into Alaska by road, then head back south and go all the way around until getting back home again.