QUESTION ID: 1879

QUESTION:
Well, I've been sitting on it a bit, but since I got the plate and title done today and I'm going to pick it up next week, I figured it was time to make it official that I'm rejoining the world of E30. I bought the car Mike from StanceWorks put up for sale last week. It was essentially my wife's double-nickel birthday present to me :). My youngest spawn and I are going to drive it home via what I'm calling "The South Route" (which he mainly picked). We're going to start by putting our feet in the Pacific, and along the way we'll dip them in the waters of the Gulf and the Atlantic before finally making it back to its new home in the Raleigh, NC area. A screen-grab from one of the videos on the car: (credit to Mike for the shot) This will be my second E30. Predictably-enough, my screen name here comes from the fact I had a nice '89 iX as a daily Sadly, it came back to me in terrible shape after being abandoned by the relative I sold it to (who has since passed away :( ) I couldn't do enough of the cosmetic stuff myself to rescue it, so I wound up selling it to a guy who wanted to do a project with his elderly father. The new car will serve the same purpose - keep the miles down on my E24 (that I call Cosmo) Anyway, I'm pretty excited for the car and the trip!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1879_1):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 Damn. Welcome back and that's a pretty awesome car to come back in. Congrats! Thanks - to say I'm excited is an understatement... (no idea if that's a proper use of that smilie, but it feels proper...)

ANSWER 2 (id: 1879_10):
That's awesome. Now that my E30 is a garage queen it makes me want another one to daily. Have a bunch of projects to finish first though. Maybe a late model with plastic bumpers? 😆

ANSWER 3 (id: 1879_12):
Originally posted by Northern Holy sheeit, I am shocked to see that car show up on R3v. Seems the best place for it ;) Originally posted by Northern Looks spectacular, as does your E24 Thanks!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1879_4):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 DAMN, well that's quite the re-entry into the scene. Congrats. Don't loan this one out lol. :( No loaning for sure. I was helping a relative in a tough spot. I was ticked and disappointed when I brought it back, but knowing what I do now, it's just a side-effect from a pretty sad thing.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1879_5):
Welcome back. It's always nice to get a sorted car vs. having to go through everything on a basketcase car, that way you spend most of your time enjoying the drive.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1879_6):
Originally posted by FredK Welcome back. It's always nice to get a sorted car vs. having to go through everything on a basketcase car, that way you spend most of your time enjoying the drive. Yeah - Mike didn't leave much to do mechanically - lol. There are a couple small things, though (he's been super-detailed about the details of this car, beyond those in the videos - great guy). As far as the interior, there are definitely things to do. The dash has cracks, which I'll definitely want to address in the short term. It still has the cloth door cards and rear seat, which I might want to swap to for black leather to match the Scheel-Mann seats (or might see if a recover is cheaper). That's not soon, and maybe never - I'm going to live with most stuff and see how it feels. The paint is another thing that is a long-term question mark. He has been extremely transparent about the flaws there too. It's a 40 year-old car. The good news is I have a good buddy who knows literally every body shop within 40 miles or more of where I live, and I can probably find a guy who would be willing to do a quality job as side-work. I don't have funds for that any time soon. The good news is there's zero rust and the paint that is on there is pretty serviceable. It shines up well, has a good ceramic coating and since it is going to be a daily, I can just not worry about it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1879_9):
Originally posted by Panici Damn, that should make an excellent driver. Do you plan to daily it? I do. I was seriously tempted by the E28 he was selling, but I don't currently have an available space in the garage, and leaving that car in the open would be a complete sin. I would have been a terrible home for that car. The E30 is something I can have all the fun I want and not worry about parking it at Home Depot, etc. Originally posted by Panici Also, what is glosshaus.com in your sig? Looks like the link is dead. Oh - I don't even see sigs. It's my old company that is pretty much in hibernation (probably never to return). It was a complete set of polish, glaze and wax with matching pads for each, all designed for a random orbital buffer for ease of use. It was a fun excuse to go to car shows. It didn't make much money, but I got to meet a lot of people and see a lot of great cars :) EDIT - I updated/fixed the sig :)