QUESTION ID: 1234

QUESTION:
I am going to replace my (cracked) windshield when I pull it out of the garage and was wondering about the rear view mirror. Obviously , on the verts, it is mounted to the widow with some form of epoxy. Just figured I would ask if anyone had advice on how to remove it without damaging it and what epoxy people had success with on re-mounting it after I replace the windshield? Of course if anyone had pointers on the windshield replacement, I am all ears as well, haha. I've watched a couple tutorials already and feel pretty good about it, but trouble spots could always arise. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1234_0):
The vert rear view mirror is two pieces. a metal puck glued to the glass and then the mirror. You remove the mirror by rotating it, although I can't remember in which direction. To remove the metal puck, you might try working a razor blade under it. Probably want to measure where the puck sits first so you can get it in the same spot on the new windshield. Mine fell off once randomly and I just used a mirror replacement kit from the local parts store. Came with a razor blade, a little wipe thing to clean the glass, and the glue. Super easy. You didn't ask about this, but might find it helpful: I just replaced the old and rusty lockstrip on mine and followed this guide: https://classicbimmerbits.com/e30-ho...d-replacement/ I went with the black lock strip, but think the chrome one would have looked better. Anything though is an improvement over what was there before!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1234_1):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem The vert rear view mirror is two pieces. a metal puck glued to the glass and then the mirror. You remove the mirror by rotating it, although I can't remember in which direction. To remove the metal puck, you might try working a razor blade under it. Probably want to measure where the puck sits first so you can get it in the same spot on the new windshield. Mine fell off once randomly and I just used a mirror replacement kit from the local parts store. Came with a razor blade, a little wipe thing to clean the glass, and the glue. Super easy. You didn't ask about this, but might find it helpful: I just replaced the old and rusty lockstrip on mine and followed this guide: https://classicbimmerbits.com/e30-ho...d-replacement/ I went with the black lock strip, but think the chrome one would have looked better. Anything though is an improvement over what was there before! Thanks, that is a good tutorial as well! I actually did go with a new chrome lockstrip instead of black, so hopefully it looks good. My old lockstrip is badly cracked and yellowed, so it definitely can't be saved. I did buy the lockstrip tool shown in that tutorial. I will have three gaskets to choose from. The one currently on the car which doesn't leak, plus I bought a decent used one "just in case" and then ended up saving the one from the car where I got the used windshield from. I'll use whichever ends up looking the best. Hopefully it goes well, honestly my biggest fear is that I break the new/used one as I install it and the lockstrip which appears to be the toughest part. I'll take my time on the everything.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1234_2):
Originally posted by pj29 Thanks, that is a good tutorial as well! I actually did go with a new chrome lockstrip instead of black, so hopefully it looks good. My old lockstrip is badly cracked and yellowed, so it definitely can't be saved. I did buy the lockstrip tool shown in that tutorial. I will have three gaskets to choose from. The one currently on the car which doesn't leak, plus I bought a decent used one "just in case" and then ended up saving the one from the car where I got the used windshield from. I'll use whichever ends up looking the best. Hopefully it goes well, honestly my biggest fear is that I break the new/used one as I install it and the lockstrip which appears to be the toughest part. I'll take my time on the everything. Doing it with the plastic trim tool was a real pita, but I didn't want to buy ANOTHER tool that I'll only use once or twice. Although I discovered a tear in the gasket that will probably cause leaks and I'll have to replace it and do the lockstrip again. I'm sure the chrome strip will look great. Post up a pic when it's done.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1234_3):
Mark where you want the puck from the outside before you glue it to the windshield. Then be sure to tape it in place so it doesn't slide around. Most important part is to let it set up over a few days before mounting your mirror.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1234_4):
Originally posted by uturn Mark where you want the puck from the outside before you glue it to the windshield. Then be sure to tape it in place so it doesn't slide around. Most important part is to let it set up over a few days before mounting your mirror. Great! Thanks for the tip.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1234_5):
MoreMayhem , Thanks for your post in 2021! I need to re-install the rearview mirror on my convertible. It currently looks like this: I think I just need these two items, but am I missing anything else? And how do I actually install it to the windshield? Just epoxy? I don't really understand how the base plate and cover connect to the mirror. Thanks! 51161954117 - BMW Cover, base plate f interior mirror. Dippable | BMW of Monterey, Seaside CA 51318145530 - BMW Base plate, rear view mirror, interior | BMW of Monterey, Seaside CA ​

ANSWER 7 (id: 1234_6):
Your local auto parts store should have a little mirror attachment kit with everything you’ll need. If I remember correctly the round cover is a trim piece to hide the gap between the base plate and the mirror. Would work fine without it, but you’d see a little gap between the mirror arm and the windshield