QUESTION ID: 3487

QUESTION:
I know it's not an E30 and I know there's a regional forum but it's pretty dead so posting it up here Still kind of in shock. It was out in front of my house last night, came to go to the gym this morning at 7 and it's gone. Stolen from the West Highlands area in Denver. I've filed a police report and alerted my insurance Total longshot posting up here but the internet has s recovered cars in the past 99 CRV, auto, silver, 233K miles, Thule spare tire rack, lowered on Yonaka coilovers, stock wheels with Falken snow tires, black mesh grill with driving lights behind it, California tags. Pioneer double din CD player, polk components otherwise interior is all stock grey. My BMX bike was in the back of it too and while I realize it was very naive of me to think leaving something in my car in a relatively safe neighborhood was OK, I don't think the bike was what they were after, just a bonus. Super bummed out Thank Nick

ANSWER 1 (id: 3487_10):
If they find it. It will be tonight cause thats when the criminals come out. So who ever stole it will likely be driving it. Unless it was scrapped for meth money but usually they are required to run vins prior to scrapping so that cant happen. Hope she comes back in one piece and not joy ridden.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3487_2):
Originally posted by marshallnoise Isn't this the second time you have had a car stolen from you? Sucks man. Good luck. Nope not me, first time I've dealt with this crap. Thanks guys!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3487_5):
I hope you find it and it's not ravaged by whoever stole it like an asshole. The only thing I leave in my car is a hat and a quart of oil. Hell, I even take the gear knob and flip on the killswitch if I'm in a REAAAALLY shitty part of town.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3487_6):
Originally posted by Kershaw Since it had CA tags on it, make sure it wasn't impounded. I had already called the police impound yard first thing. Wasn't there and since the car is now registered stolen it would immediately throw a red flag when they ran the VIN. Tags are still up to date on it to and I can't imagine them up and towing it for simply having out of state tags.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3487_7):
Watch out for love stains if you get it back. Seriously though, that can't be a good feeling. Every time I thought my car was stolen, I got lucky and it was at a tow yard.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3487_8):
Originally posted by Exodus_2pt0 Watch out for love stains if you get it back. Seriously though, that can't be a good feeling. Every time I thought my car was stolen, I got lucky and it was at a tow yard. I just called to check..still no go. I have a feeling shes gone.