QUESTION ID: 3511

QUESTION:
Yesterday I got lazy and instead of sitting in the drivers seat and then removing the shift knob, I leaned in the window and just yanked it. Punched myself right in the cheekbone and gave myself a black eye. A friend commented on my fb that he once broke his nose doing that, another said a dealership tech shattered a windshield and broke the rear view mirror. So what else does r3v have? It's not bad, but it's there. Lol.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3511_0):
But seriously, there has been so many times where I've done the same thing. About a second before it happens you say to yourself "hmmm, I could probably hurt myself doing it this way.." Worst one was when I was 20 and my '66 Nova had this bad habit of snapping off wheel studs on launch. Well, I decided I was going to change them in the parking lot of my work at the time (Schucks) and figured the scissor jack was "good enough." After about the third yank of the rear wheel I said to myself "What happens if this falls of the jack, it will probably crush my hand." Sure as sh*t - the car rolled forward with my hand on the top of the tire. So then my hand was pinched between the fender and the top of the tire. Didn't break any bones but completely flattened all my fingers right down to the bone. Still don't know how I lifted the car off my hand that day..

ANSWER 2 (id: 3511_1):
Never had that problem. My gooseneck was already starting to deteriorate on the notch. That ZHP was a bitch to get on, however. Don't plan on taking it off any time soon...

ANSWER 3 (id: 3511_10):
Originally posted by sonomabimmers i have a really bad shoulder and every god damn time i pull it right out of the socket then have to wing it back in there hahha. its really a sight to see i just yell fuuuuuck If you get an Ireland Engineering shifter, like I have, they are threaded for easy removal of their knobs. But.. if you put a ZHP on it, it's definitely a snug fit. Haha. Threaded shifter would definitely be easier on your shoulder.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3511_12):
My friend and I test drove a 5-speed e34 535i once and we decided to see what it would do 0-60, so we took off pedal to the medal and when he slammed it in 2nd gear the knob flew back and hit the person sitting in the backseat.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3511_2):
I always told people the preferred method was to straddle the center console, look straight down at the knob to make sure it was centered, grip tightly with both hands and firmly jerk upwards. Heheheheheehhe

ANSWER 6 (id: 3511_3):
Originally posted by slammin.e28 I always told people the preferred method was to straddle the center console, look straight down at the knob to make sure it was centered, grip tightly with both hands and firmly jerk upwards. Heheheheheehhe You know, I believe there is a special place in hell for people like you. R3v will see you down there! :razz:

ANSWER 7 (id: 3511_4):
Originally posted by supermansocks95 You know, I believe there is a special place in hell for people like you. R3v will see you down there! :razz: I'm already here pls. :p ;)

ANSWER 8 (id: 3511_6):
Originally posted by slammin.e28 I always told people the preferred method was to straddle the center console, look straight down at the knob to make sure it was centered, grip tightly with both hands and firmly jerk upwards. Heheheheheehhe Best advice of the day.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3511_7):
I usually hit my hand on fender sheet metal when doing brakes/suspension etc. Last time I hit my shin somehow and that was a bitch. Luckily it's always been like 80 degrees out when I've removed my shifter so it comes off easier

ANSWER 10 (id: 3511_8):
i have a really bad shoulder and every god damn time i pull it right out of the socket then have to wing it back in there hahha. its really a sight to see i just yell fuuuuuck