QUESTION ID: 2453
TOPIC: seat_swap

QUESTION:
I've got a 325ix with heated comfort seats, and a set of (convertible) leather sport seats without the heating element. Has anyone ever combined the heating elements from comfort seats into the Leather sport seats? What was the process like and is it even worth it? I would probably want to reupholster the Sport seats anyways. I'd also consider maybe trying to sell each of the seat pairs, in exchange for just looking for a tan set of heated tan seats. ( I have a spare set of recaros which could take the place. temporarily. Heated comfort seats are in great shape, while the Leather Tan Convertible Sport seats are 6.5/10. Would be comfortable, but could definitely be reupolstered I definitely want the heating element, because Colorado in winter stinks.... Let me know your thoughts/advice.. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2453_0):
Sure, elements can be swapped, but keep in mind thst these are really old, and new units would be a better solution long term. Also, cloth is better than vinyl or leather in the winter.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2453_1):
You pretty much need to disassemble both sets of seats to the point you can remove the center section of the back and bottom, which involves removing the hog rings holding it to the frame. You also need to consider the slider lever is offset on the iX to clear the tcase hump. I don't remember if that ends up being a problem or not when swapping seats though.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2453_2):
I put heated seat elements in my sport seats. Used these - Besond Universal car seat Heater Rectangle hi-Off-lo Switch Carbon Fiber Heater Element Two Seats https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01M635R9A/ and they worked very well. Switches look very OEM, same size and shape as factory.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2453_4):
The elements are built to fit between the seams and the listings (the metal rods that hold the fabric to the foam) so for instance on sports seats you cannot switch elements from horizontal seams to vertical. For this reason I'm skeptical that comfort seat heating elements will swap over to cabrio seats.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2453_5):
Originally posted by Northern You pretty much need to disassemble both sets of seats to the point you can remove the center section of the back and bottom, which involves removing the hog rings holding it to the frame. You also need to consider the slider lever is offset on the iX to clear the tcase hump. I don't remember if that ends up being a problem or not when swapping seats though. The drivers slide lever on non-ix seats can be bent to clear the hump. You'll either need factory heating elements for the sport seats or aftermarket. They will not be the same as the comfort seats. Sent from my SM-G988U using Tapatalk