QUESTION ID: 455

QUESTION:
Sup guys! Needed a new head unit for the E30 and one day I was on Instagram and Clarion announced that they just released the Clarion M508. I think Matt Farah was rocking the prototype in his 911 for awhile. General Features: -marine digital media receiver with AM/FM/WB tuner -no internal CD player — plays MP3 and WMA music files from your iPod and other external sources -built-in Bluetooth® for music streaming -Bluetooth aptX for superior sound quality from Android phones -enjoy Pandora using your iPhone® -2-line black-on-white LCD display -for single-DIN applications Marine-specific Features: -specially sealed against the elements for use in the marine environment -conformal-coated PCB circuit board -covers for front USB and AUX inputs -NMEA 2000 connectivity with optional MW6 module -marine remote ready Audio Features: -3-band parametric equalizer with 11 preset sound curves -fully-adjustable fader and control subwoofer controls Expandability: -compatible with SiriusXM satellite radio tuner -built-in iPod control -inputs: front USB and AUX inputs -outputs: 8-channel preamp outputs Other Features and Specs: -built-in amplifier (20 watts RMS/50 peak x 4 channels) Here's the link to Clarion's website for the M508: Clarion North and South America | Home http://www.clarion.com/us/en/products-personal/marine/M508/index.html And here's the link where I bought it from (Crutchfield): https://www.crutchfield.com/S-DDs5o4...rion-M508.html I think it was the cheapest place I found it and it got to me in about 2-3 days (I'm in Southern California). Some pictures of what it looks like: The box! It's super clean, and I love the matte finish on the face. The knob is kinda flashy but I got used to it. Also, there's only two settings for the brightness and to be honest it's super bright haha, but it's not that bad since I'm not really looking at it most of the time. Plus you can switch off the head unit and your audio will still play. (Low Brightness Setting) Did I mention the back light is white? Bummer. If it was RGB or Orange it would've been perfect but the white grows on me. Overall, I think for the price it's a neat head unit.Clean, simple, and the power it can put out is definitely noticeable. The Bluetooth connectivity is on point too, it connects when you start the car in about 10-15 seconds. Not much of an audio guy but thought I'd share my thoughts and pictures!

ANSWER 1 (id: 455_0):
Very nice! I have one ordered and on the way myself. Your pictures reassured me. It is a bummer about the backlighting, but I'm sure it won't be a big deal.

ANSWER 2 (id: 455_10):
Sure, I can offer some advice if you get to that point. Certianly if you are going to take the faceplate apart, you might as well see about an LED swap. Every head unit I have ever come across has had a faceplate which is easy to get fully apart down to the PCB.

ANSWER 3 (id: 455_3):
Originally posted by kid8 Very nice! I have one ordered and on the way myself. Your pictures reassured me. It is a bummer about the backlighting, but I'm sure it won't be a big deal. Yea, it would've been amazing if it was RGB. But I usually turn off the screen at night anyways, enjoy!

ANSWER 4 (id: 455_4):
I really like the look of this, but do not like the bright white display at all. When you turn the display off, does the button backlighting turn off as well?

ANSWER 5 (id: 455_6):
Originally posted by shootnjunky yes everything is off when you turn it off Thanks for the reply. How do you like it after having it installed for a while? Does the white backlighting bug you at all? How is the SQ?

ANSWER 6 (id: 455_8):
If the white backlighting is super annoying, it is pretty easy to swap the LEDs for orange ones. I have done this on a few head units over the years. Orange LEDs with a spectral peak at 605nm seem to match the rest of the interior lighting perfectly to the human eye (they look a little weird in digital camera photos since the sensor response is different than the eye). Getting the brightness right is usually the most work since it either involves trying multiple different LEDs or messing with the current limiting resistors. Based on the conversion I did on a Clarion RMT-200, I can probably suggest a part number. That is, if anyone is willing to do a little soldering! (surface mount really is not scary at all, and I find through-hole stuff to be a bigger pain in the ass)

ANSWER 7 (id: 455_9):
Originally posted by bmwman91 If the white backlighting is super annoying, it is pretty easy to swap the LEDs for orange ones. I have done this on a few head units over the years. Orange LEDs with a spectral peak at 605nm seem to match the rest of the interior lighting perfectly to the human eye (they look a little weird in digital camera photos since the sensor response is different than the eye). Getting the brightness right is usually the most work since it either involves trying multiple different LEDs or messing with the current limiting resistors. Based on the conversion I did on a Clarion RMT-200, I can probably suggest a part number. That is, if anyone is willing to do a little soldering! (surface mount really is not scary at all, and I find through-hole stuff to be a bigger pain in the ass) Interesting. I may lean on you for some advice if I decide to go through with the purchase. I was also thinking it might be possible to separate the LCD from the front glass and apply some translucent amber vinyl in between. That wouldn't fix the button backlighting, but would address the main display at least.