QUESTION ID: 1736

QUESTION:
Just under a year ago I decided I wanted to get into the E30 game and started searching out a project car that fit my budget and in my "area". Ended up stumbling on the black '89 sedan locally and picked it up cheap. Runs and drives but needs a lot of TLC. Lots of deferred maintenance. Major issues are body and paint related. Both front fenders have some body damage (repairable) and rust holes in the battery box in the rear and 1 small hole in the driver floor pan. But no problem! I found a guy parting out an E30 locally during my search and for the price of 2 ebay fenders I could have the whole car. Enter the 1987 Vert. Now, had I not been so ignorant to the nuances of the early vs late model and sedan vs convertible, I probably wouldnt have ended up with the car in the end. But here we are and now I turn to the community for some advice. What do I do with the '87 Vert now? There's no title, clear carfax but previous owner bought it for parts and didn't get one. Car is at least 85% complete but I don't have a solid inventory of what parts the other guy took off. I know the front grill and lights and ac/heater box were taken (hence the removed dash). Originally paint and no visible rust or body damage. I could still use it for a floor patch but I really think that's unnecessary especially since the Vert is a solid car. I haven't dug into the repair yet but the hole is only 1.5" diameter. The fenders and rear fender wells are different so those won't work. So besides a few odds and ends (3 spoke steering wheel) and maybe the engine as a spare/ future stroker build, I don't see a need to hang on to this car and I'm not really that interested in parting it out myself because I don't have a great place to store it long term. I guess what it boils down to is there enough value in selling the car AS-IS 85-90% but needing a full resto or is it destined to be a donor and I should take whatever I want and sell off the rest?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1736_1):
Well, in some states, getting a title's almost impossible, so if that's the case where you are (Texas?) then there's not much value in a title-less shell. If titling isn't difficult, then it comes down to demand- around here, 'verts are still pretty common, and tend to be less beat, so they aren't worth a lot when they're not complete. But again, if they're rare where you are, then selling it on makes more sense. t conditionally

ANSWER 2 (id: 1736_2):
Originally posted by AWDBOB Verts are parts cars. Take what you want and sell the rest to fund the sedan project IMO Ouch. A bit harsh. But for the OP, depending on the state, the lack of title is more than likely a hurdle too high to overcome. Disassemble and sell it piece by piece to fund your project. Best of luck.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1736_4):
Originally posted by TobyB Well, in some states, getting a title's almost impossible, so if that's the case where you are (Texas?) then there's not much value in a title-less shell. If titling isn't difficult, then it comes down to demand- around here, 'verts are still pretty common, and tend to be less beat, so they aren't worth a lot when they're not complete. But again, if they're rare where you are, then selling it on makes more I live in West Texas, anything classic Euro is uncommon. Kind of why I jumped so quick on it when I did. That being said there's also less enthusiasts into Euro projects. Theres plenty of E30s across Texas and verts arent uncommon. In Texas you can get a bonded title for the vehicle but the cost is like $2000 for a car like this so it makes it cost prohibitive on something in this condition.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1736_5):
Originally posted by AWDBOB Verts are parts cars. Take what you want and sell the rest to fund the sedan project IMO Lol, in this case literally. I think it's destined to be parts unfortunately. Besides the engine and Motronic any good parts worth picking out and selling? It's an auto trans, the cluster is gone.