QUESTION ID: 1386

QUESTION:
E30/BB Rear Butt Brace 84 to 93 E30 BMW Shipped Price: $278.00 Stiffens up the rear end of the BMW significantly over stock. Must have for the convertible. Not recommended for severely lowered cars.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1386_0):
Seems very high for the engineering and material involved... look at the garagistic X brace in comparison. Similar price, loads of welds and material, same sort of intention of chassis stiffening. Wouldn't be opposed to putting one in my car as it seems like an easy bolt in upgrade but I wouldn't pay that.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1386_1):
Kinda seems a bit steep for a piece that's essentially a fixed sway bar with mounting holes... looks a lot less complicated than.... Say, a front strut brace. So how does it mount up? Sent from my XT1064 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1386_10):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars It's not that much more considering the extra heft the Strong Strut appears to have. I can see where a tubular brace will keep the anchor points (subframe bolts) from spreading but don't see how it would limit twisting. Forcing the portion of the rear end to move as a parallelogram where the top is the chassis, the sides are the subframe bushings and the bottom is the butt brace could be meaningfully stronger than the open 'C' that exists without. It is counter intuitive that such deflection exists. I would question the benefit of this bar strongly if i hadn't also heard positive reviews from people who had put even mild polly rear subframe bushings in. Doing this would allow the rear subframe to act as more of a stressed member under similar conditions as the butt brace would be a benefit. It makes me worry about the load on the subframe bolts & mounting points. To make a meaningful difference in chassis flex i imagine there would be considerable force in directions not necessarily intended by the chassis engineers.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1386_2):
Originally posted by McGyver Where would this go? This bolts under the rear to to the rear subframe bolts. I understand you think it's a little steep. $279 shipped is a fair price. There is a lot that goes in to bringing a part form a one off to a production part.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1386_5):
Originally posted by ejnight This bolts under the rear to to the rear subframe bolts. I understand you think it's a little steep. $279 shipped is a fair price. There is a lot that goes in to bringing a part form a one off to a production part. How was this design compared to bolting it from somewhere under the middle of the car to the subframe bolts?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1386_6):
Originally posted by E30335i How was this design compared to bolting it from somewhere under the middle of the car to the subframe bolts? I did not work on that as a way to go. This was a proven concept, so I went for it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1386_7):
I think people are confusing this with the x-brace. You should probably put up a photo of placement. FYI for those that don't know, this helps the vert's feel more solid. The other option is a lot more expensive: 404 Not Found http://www.bimmerzone.com/product/SS-BEZ3E30-RSB.html Bimmerzone was established in 2001 and has been providing quality parts to 10s of thousands of customers around the US and around the world. We take pride in providing top notch BMW parts, performance and accessories at the lowest possible prices and still maintaining a high quality of customer service. 404 Not Found http://www.strong-strut.com/Butt-Strut.htm Our strut tower braces transform the handling of your BMW, and feature a unique, rigid design while maintaining easy serviceability.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1386_9):
Originally posted by dude8383 I think people are confusing this with the x-brace. You should probably put up a photo of placement. FYI for those that don't know, this helps the vert's feel more solid. The other option is a lot more expensive: 404 Not Found http://www.bimmerzone.com/product/SS-BEZ3E30-RSB.html Bimmerzone was established in 2001 and has been providing quality parts to 10s of thousands of customers around the US and around the world. We take pride in providing top notch BMW parts, performance and accessories at the lowest possible prices and still maintaining a high quality of customer service. http://www.strong-strut.com/Butt-Strut.htm It's not that much more considering the extra heft the Strong Strut appears to have. I can see where a tubular brace will keep the anchor points (subframe bolts) from spreading but don't see how it would limit twisting.