QUESTION ID: 1756

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, I’ve decided to sell my e30. It went live yesterday. I hope it goes well. 1989 BMW 325i 5-Speed https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1989-bmw-325is-104/ Bid for the chance to own a 1989 BMW 325i 5-Speed at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #174,962.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1756_1):
I have always been a major proponent of the need to accurately describe certain models ie M tech appearance vs M tech luxury (or full M technic) and 325e/i vs eS/iS. People used to say that it didn't matter because all the "S" stuff can be swapped over, etc. but just because someone swapped over a few or even all the parts, it still doesn't make it a factory "S" model. I for one, would prefer a factory fitted car over one that someone has swapped parts on. The distinction is necessary, otherwise there would be a great number of "S" cars out there that would dilute the value of the original cars.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1756_10):
The car was picked up last night. Went ok. We’ve gotten 12 plus inches of snow this past 7 days. I told the shipper a semi trailer wouldn’t fit in the neighborhood. He was supposed to be there in the morning. I guess the pickup from Copart here locally took forever and he was in a semi trailer. He parked along the outer road and picked up the car at 6pm. I signed some documents on the shippers phone. He took photos. I took a walk around video. I noticed shipping from KC to Jupiter Florida cost $900. Next time, I might offer the buyer to deliver it myself, at cost. so the story is essentially complete. overall it went well. I would sell a car via BaT again.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1756_6):
Because I don't keep up with E30 auctions I'm consistently surprised at how expensive they are now when one crosses my path. White, black interior, and best year (89) are a good combo for value. I am just surprised to see it go for over $15k despite the damaged wheel arch, dent in the quarter panel and hood, rust hole in the battery box, rust on the trunk lid, tweaked valance.... For the buyer, the decay is in the "stop it now while it's minor" phase so fix that rust and body damage before it winds up as serious rot. Seeing the prices steadily march upward just means for me that it's likely I will be restoring my car even with its roof rust because finding a nice one to move my turbo stuff and black interior over to would be a tall order.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1756_7):
The thing is, there are multiple ways to 'value' an E30. Locally, decent, scruffy drivers show up on C-list or MarketFace pretty regularly, with asking prices anywhere from $4-8k A similar 2002 might be $5-12k, less regularly. So I pretty much ignore the auction action. If I was in the market for a very clean E30M3, I might not be able to do so, but in the bottom 2/3 of the fishbowl, the prices at the top don't seem to affect what the rest of us can find... all that much. t ignores all ads that start with the word RARE!!!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1756_8):
Hey everyone, thank you for taking an interest in my car. So far, everything I’ve experienced through bring a trailer has gone really smoothly. I did myself a disservice by not being clear in the starting days of the sale to clearly say it’s an 325i and not an is. I should have noticed that but it really slipped my mind since so many of the ‘is’ pieces are present. I’m happy with the result. It’s a driver car. It’s got flaws but it’s freeing to drive something that’s not perfect. My next plan was to remedy each flaw but decided to move on. the title transfer is interesting. The buyer elected to use the BAT company called caramel. They ask you to send the title unsigned to them sing with a power of attorney form. It gets sent to them via a prepaid overnight FedEx label. The last thing I’m waiting on is the shipping company. They say that the shipping takes 10-14 days to find a shipper then they reach out for the potential day. I’m not sure if I’ll get a call to say ‘we’ll come next week’ or if it going to be ‘we’re coming tomorrow’ I’ll update once it is shipped.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1756_9):
The shipping is probably a day or two notice for you at most if the buyer used a broker with it being so much cheaper. I don’t know about the shipping through BaT, just that it’s expensive. Caramel acts as a dealer to transfer the title and basically is acting as an escrow service it seems, from my experience. Best bet is to communicate with the buyer over the shipping.