QUESTION ID: 2537

QUESTION:
Came across this scene on the way to work today. This was at the intersection of White Oak and Burbank Blvd. in the Reseda area. Looked like it ignited at the rear from a possible fuel spill?? In any case hope everyone involved is ok.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2537_2):
Holy moly – I hope his insurance is paid up. I can’t imagine what the liability might be out of that incident. And this is another reminder to us that when we are repairing and maintaining our fuel systems, our work must be impeccable. Check those hoses and replace them if they are old.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2537_5):
It's probably faster, easier and more effective to use the extinguishers on the poles at a gas station than to open your car and use whatever compact extinguisher you have in there. If the fire starts on a puddle and spreads out quickly it's unlikely you'll be able to put it all out with an extinguisher anyway because of the limited capacity. If the vapor in the tank ignites and spreads liquid then there's probably nothing you can do at all without firefighting equipment. We don't know how this started, could have been a leaking filler hose involved, could have been vapor ignition around the filler port because of static discharge and faulty fume recovery on the pump, etc. The best thing in any case is prevention; making sure the filler hose is in good shape and the tank isn't rusty, and being careful about static buildup and discharge around gasoline pumps, especially ones that are missing the vapor recovery hood. Furthermore, a car with a working evap system passes most of the displaced vapor from a fill-up through the charcoal canister, I don't even know if a car that old has an evap system, and it might be subject to excessive vapor displacement through the filler neck because of that.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2537_6):
just replaced the fuel tank and all fuel hoses, on my red e30, particularly, to avoid a situation like this. how disheartening. my condolences, to the owner.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2537_8):
That's awful. My first 2002 was hit in the filler fender on the 405 near Carson by a drunk driver. Ended up looking just like that. Hope no one was hurt.