QUESTION ID: 1406

QUESTION:
Is it possible for me to make the M3 kit like this one fit the convertible. Will there be a large gap at the top of the back quarter panels? I would like to make an M3 kit fit my convertible. What is the best route to get this look? https://www.vividracing.com/-p-15094...UaAlYCEALw_wcB Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1406_0):
Originally posted by Fubaru Is it possible for me to make the M3 kit like this one fit the convertible. Will there be a large gap at the top of the back quarter panels? I would like to make an M3 kit fit my convertible. What is the best route to get this look? https://www.vividracing.com/-p-15094...UaAlYCEALw_wcB I think the pandem / rocket bunny kit works with verts. At least, I've seen pics from them of a very with it. I'm not sure about the OEM wide body kits from DTM though. I'd really like to wide body my vert some day, and I'll occasionally go through phases of research on them, but there's just not a ton of info regarding verts in my experience. I'm super interested to head what other r3vvers here have to say though. Sent from my SM-N910V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1406_1):
Pandem skirts are the only thing that wont work on the vert - they'll have a gap in them since the very rockers are thicc. I mean you can install it, but it's a small detail that's noticeable.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1406_2):
Should be pretty straight forward for a body shop. If you can get your hands on M3 sheet metal quarters and fenders, there aren't the same problems with the convertible that you might run into on a coupe. The convertible was made into an M3 in Europe, and I'm almost certain that the fenders are just normal M3 fenders blended into the convertible body lines. On the coupe you run into the issue that the rear C pillar is shaped differently than the M3's. The M3 has the thick trunk lid edge that blends into the C pillar behind the rear window. The convertible of course does not have this issue as it doesn't have a C pillar. For the most part, the M3 rear quarter pannels follow the same lines as the convertible. Add bumpers and side skirts and you should be fine. I created an animation by overlaying an M3 and a vert to illustrate it better. Here is the real M3 convertible. Here are the images I used to make the animation.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1406_3):
That is amazing!!! Thank you so much for your time. So my problem is going to be finding a M3 sheet metal... Can't use the kit linked in some way eh? Can anyone direct me to a metal replica body kit?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1406_4):
Originally posted by Levy3Poop I think the pandem / rocket bunny kit works with verts. At least, I've seen pics from them of a very with it. I'm not sure about the OEM wide body kits from DTM though. I'd really like to wide body my vert some day, and I'll occasionally go through phases of research on them, but there's just not a ton of info regarding verts in my experience. I'm super interested to head what other r3vvers here have to say though. Sent from my SM-N910V using Tapatalk It does fit :) Not as well as on a coupe though Attached Files

ANSWER 6 (id: 1406_5):
Originally posted by Michael Star It does fit :) Not as well as on a coupe though Nice! Did you have to modify the kit at all? Also, what size and offset wheels are you running with the kit? Sent from my SM-N910V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 1406_6):
I didn't modify it, but the rocker panel piece doesn't line up as nice as it does on the coupe. Right now Im running style 5s (17") and Im waiting for my rears to be converted to 3 piece so they are wide enough to fit the fenders (they look silly currently).