QUESTION ID: 3322

QUESTION:
Longtime lurker, part time tinkerer here. I just made up this custom handle for my 1991 318is with an E30 logo in the M style and font: I had a lot of fun doing it and I'm wondering if any of you hooligans would want a pair/4 for their rides. I figure if there are 20 people interested in a pair, I could do them for $100/pair or less. Also, should the E30 logo be anodized with the handle, or bare metal/silver to stand out? If you're interested, PM me and I'll start a list going. Cheers everyone.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3322_1):
Are those CNC milled or cast? Look absolutely beast btw. I'd suggest rerunning the embossed text after the anno (presuming its milled) so that you get the exposed aluminum/steel for the writing. I think it'd look amazing. And can you do the anno yourself out of curiosity (I've always dropped a fortune for anno parts)? In maybe a month or two (when I've got some more money as well :P) I think I'd be interested.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3322_10):
Originally posted by flyboyx not trying to be a downer but don't be too disappointed when 1/2 of them flake out once you invested your time an money into this and it comes time for them to pay. Smart thing to do is take 50% deposit up front so at least your material costs are covered if someone flakes out after ordering. It will also weed out the people who are 'interested' but never intend on actually ordering.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3322_11):
Spinning up the 'ol CNC machine to start making these! If you'd like to add your name to the initial run list, just PM me. I'll be posting updates here, bimmerforums, and reddit. Thanks everyone, excited for this fun side project!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3322_4):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Are u creating the entire handle or machining originals? There are guys already doing this fyi. thats an entire handle for sure, nowhere near as smooth looking as the originals

ANSWER 5 (id: 3322_5):
Originally posted by bangn thats an entire handle for sure, nowhere near as smooth looking as the originals Yeah, entire handle. And yes, there's some specks and machining lines I'm removing in my latest attempt. Should feel exactly like OEM, and a bit more solid/weighty.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3322_8):
Alright, we've got 20 people interested so I'm going to make these in the next few weeks! Anyone else want a pair? Hit me up and I'll you to the list.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3322_9):
not trying to be a downer but don't be too disappointed when 1/2 of them flake out once you invested your time an money into this and it comes time for them to pay.