QUESTION ID: 3098

QUESTION:
Anyone know anything about bead blasters? I have a harbor freight cabinet but the gun keeps clogging up. Works great when it does work but most the time I'm wasting air just waiting for the blast of sand. anyway can u recommend a decent gun that works like it should? I have a 30gal kobalt compressor.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3098_0):
I was having the same problem. I cover the nozzel on the gun, and blow air, so it goes back into the sand and "fluffs" it up. Before I start blasting I kick the "sandbox" and blow back. Does the trick for me. Edit; idk how i didn't see the clogging part. How long have you been using the media for?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3098_1):
Could be damp media or ceramic nozzle is too small for the media size. My kit came with 4 nozzles and swapped them out till the crushed glass media flowed well. Well used or dull media will create a large dust cloud obscuring your view. I use a vacuum into a tornado recovery system to lessen the dust inside my cabinet. I also use LEDs on the cover to illuminate my chamber. So much better than the little light at the back it came with. Good luck! So nice to work with clean parts....

ANSWER 3 (id: 3098_3):
It's been doing it since day 1. new beads and a full dry tank of air. pickup hose is packed with beads all the way to the nozzle but it's not coming out most the time. With the black stuff and walnut same shit. It's like a 50/50 if it works. I've been reading good things about this so I'll get this one. Skat Blast&#174; USA Cabinet Gun &amp; Pickup Tube Upgrade Kit http://www.tptools.com/USA-Cabinet-Gun-and-Pickup-Tube-Upgrade-Kit,2320.html This is a complete made-in-USA Cabinet Gun Kit made to replace the operating system of most imported sandblasting cabinets on four legs. It gives you the benefit of USA blasting technology at an economical price. It also provides continual and immediate availability of nozzles and wear items as needed. Includes clear instructions and installs in minutes with simple hand tools. In addition, our complete catalog is included for future availability of parts and nozzles. Made-in-USA Skat Blast® Power Gun - the same gun used on trigger-operated Skat Blast® Cabinets! Has full-hand trigger for operator comfort. High Velocity Blast gun has larger air passages for more power. Requires 10-15 cfm air @ 80-100 psi. Smooth Abrasive Flow - no surging or abrasive spitting.2 ft Clear Siphon Hose won't kink or crack. Genuine Skat Blast® Pickup Tube which has been the standard of the industry in Skat Blast® Cabinets for over 40 years. Pickup tube is designed for fast, powerful abrasive flow. (Overall pickup tube length - 18", tube OD - 5/8", mounting tab - 4-1/8" on center.) INSTALLATION IS EASY! - Simply replace the imported cabinet gun, siphon hose and pickup tube of imported cabinet with those of USA-made Skat Blast® Upgrade Kit. Complete, easy-to-follow instructions included. The gun in this kit includes a medium air jet and nozzles for use with most 5 HP air compressors.