QUESTION ID: 1112

QUESTION:
Hey guys, after four years of looking / day dreaming / reasoning with God, I picked up a Sterling Silver 91. She has 94K on her, all stock except for H&R Sports, Billy Sports, a SS muffler, Evo shift knob, ACS pedal set and aftermarket CD player. I am going to remove the pedal set and swap in the OE radio and shift knob. Hopefully my cousin has time to take good quality pics once the car is detailed. Until then: I'll probably have questions - thank you in advance for answers.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1112_2):
If you haven't heard, there will be a Southern California Vintage BMW Meet which will take place on Saturday, October 13, 2012 in Van Nuys. Hope to see you there!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1112_5):
Originally posted by fronton Congrats. I love the silver interior. I'm curious what the "reasoning with God" entailed. Justification of your desire? I struggle with that myself. Thanks man. I would have prefered a black interior, but the gray has grown on me. Reasoning with God; something like this, for me, is a pure luxury, and as you said, is hard to justify. Part of me wanted to pay off debt but the other part really wanted this car ;) Originally posted by ZM Blue Devil I nearly hated you for selling the swap car. Back in love. Well done. Thank you sir. I am pleased to be back in your good graces. Originally posted by 88Alpine If you haven't heard, there will be a Southern California Vintage BMW Meet which will take place on Saturday, October 13, 2012 in Van Nuys. Hope to see you there! I appreciate the heads-up. I may bring the family. Originally posted by ramielm very nice, but I can't believe they put those ugly steering wheels on M3's! Originally posted by reelizmpro Nice pick up. I have always liked Sterling silver M3's. Airbag wheels suck but federal laws mandated it for 90-up. It can be swapped out easy enough. Thanks guys - I have plans for a smaller OE wheel.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1112_6):
Originally posted by airkhin congrats! looks beautiful! Originally posted by tonerrrr Looking good! ;) Originally posted by Buzztt sexiness Much appreciated, fellas.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1112_9):
Originally posted by MR 325 Congrats Mark, looks great! Hope you can make it up to SoCal Vintage so I can check it out. Yes, please do. Perfect place to show it off.