QUESTION ID: 1901

QUESTION:
I am looking for pictures of MTech1 kits and have not found many, surprisingly. Can someone point me in the right direction or can we start one here? Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 1 (id: 1901_0):
I guess they are just super rare. Google images has some, but I thought there might be more members on here with it. Wondering if maybe I should cancel my order for the Euro bumpers and convert to late model? MTech 1 doesn't seem like a popular choice. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 2 (id: 1901_1):
Mtech1 is definitely popular (well liked), just rare and expensive for some r3v members. Curious though, did you order a brand new kit for euro bumpers or find a seller with a used set?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1901_10):
Heres my old one - They're not all that common in Europe either - so I wouldn't agree with the post above this. They're pretty rare, and going up in value. I've only seen one full kit recently - which happens to be local https://www.donedeal.ie/caraccessories-for-sale/bmw-e30-m-technic-1-bodykit/11494845 Thats EUR1k - so $1.12k or so. The same kits were around 300 about 4 years ago, but they're getting rarer these days.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1901_12):
Originally posted by Javier h kdevitt, how much did you get for the M30 henna? That build was epic. Ugh. Would rather not think about it! Got significantly less than the cost of the swap though, although it helped fund a deposit for a new house. New project coming soon though :D

ANSWER 5 (id: 1901_3):
Originally posted by Reichart12 Mtech1 is definitely popular (well liked), just rare and expensive for some r3v members. Curious though, did you order a brand new kit for euro bumpers or find a seller with a used set? Ordered new from ECS. They are on back order until next month. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 6 (id: 1901_4):
Originally posted by Rouvld I actually really like Mtech ones, I feel MTech 2s are a little played out right now and are becoming common place. I guess I am just surprised that there is not a dedicated thread for MTech 1 pictures. At east, I couldn't find one. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 7 (id: 1901_6):
Wow that's a lot of pictures lol. I prefer the side skirts that go up on the ends. Im not sure if there is a name differentiation or not. Edit: Also good luck on getting that kit in. They've been on backorder as long as I can remember and they just keep pushing the date back once it reaches that supposed date.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1901_7):
Originally posted by Reichart12 Wow that's a lot of pictures lol. I prefer the side skirts that go up on the ends. Im not sure if there is a name differentiation or not. Edit: Also good luck on getting that kit in. They've been on backorder as long as I can remember and they just keep pushing the date back once it reaches that supposed date. Oh great. I guess if I can't get them I will be forced to go plastic bumpers. I don't want used Euro chromes unless they were mint. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 9 (id: 1901_8):
If you have a 87 or earlier car, the MTech 1 kit is the ideal option, but will typically take extra time & $ to acquire all of the required components. I completed the build on my 87 325is below 2 years ago and it took me 18months to obtain all of the MT1 parts for the build. Most of it I pieced together with components purchased used on ebay UK, but I did opt to buy the euro bumpers new from ECS. See photo of the car below next to my MT2 cabrio. To my knowledge, almost all of the MT-1 parts are NLA at this time with the exception of a few mounting bits and possibly one of the side skirts. Since MT1 was never delivered in the US, they are rare here, but if you build one it will make your car very unique. Remember, the MT-1 kit is not just a valance. It is an assembly that integrates with the euro bumpers. The valance actually mounts over the bumper and the transition is covered by the black plastic trim and turn signal assemblies. It makes for a clean install because the entire thing is built on the bench and the mounted on the car as a single piece. Here is a photo of the assembly on the bench Here is an image during a test fit without the trim installed. The rear is similar, just with fewer components. It is best if you use a euro metal valance behind the plastic valance, but we were able to trim the us valance to clear the fogs and brake ducts. Here is a photo of the back side If you decide to go with plastic bumpers on an early car you will need some type of aftermarket rear valance to accommodate the shorter lower tail panels, and I'm not sure how the rear bumper will mate up with the edge of the wheel opening because of the arch height and lack of recess for the bumper at the edge. I actually have a second used complete MT-1 kit that I acquired over time for another build. I may not follow thru with the build so I may be convinced to part with it, but if I do, it needs to go to someone local enough to pick it up here in NJ near Philadelphia. I'm not interested in shipping it. Good Luck