QUESTION ID: 1481

QUESTION:
I am currently trying to decide the best play for the oil drain from my turbo. This is the last part of what I need to do before I can make some cool sounds. That being said I’ve read as much as I can about turbo oil drains and found that most people are drilling their block. This is fine, if I can do it right. One individual on the forum drilled right behind where the AC bracket attaches to the block. I like this idea, but it looks like it will require a great deal of work to drop the subframe and lower the engine so I can drill straight into the location. Is this the only place people are tapping their engines for turbo drains? Are there alternatives? What is everyone else doing? Picture attached for reference. I marked above the place I’ve seen wondering if it would work. I could drill it straight with my current access but idk if I’d be hitting rods or something else. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1481_1):
I typically put them in the pan when the engine is still in the car. You might be able to use a right angle drill and stubby drill. Don't forget a tapered reamer if you are using NPT.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1481_2):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird I typically put them in the pan when the engine is still in the car. You might be able to use a right angle drill and stubby drill. Don't forget a tapered reamer if you are using NPT. On the IX the oil pan doesn't offer a lot of options for drilling. This is like the last thing I need to do for the turbo to be up and running. Just scared to drill the block or drill any of it really. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1481_3):
Originally posted by downforce22 mine is drilled into the oil pan in that location The spot I referenced was on the block above the AC compressor bracket. On the thread “how to turbo your 325ix” he drilled down a little bit lower and put it basically between the four bolt locations. My main concern with drilling the block a little high is I will put the drain into a location where the rotation assembly on the crank is going to be obstructed in some way. Otherwise I think I can just drill this as a slight angle, tap it and we should be in business. The block is last thing I wanna ruin. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1481_4):
I happen to have an ix here at work, which we will be turbo-ing once I have time to finish the floor pans. Haven't given it much thought about the drain..... Just went back there an looked. Nice open spot just as your first pic, but you could also do as the e36's do and go to the front of the pan where the higher area is and go in front. When going into the side of a pan on a RWD m20, the return bung is under the oil level, and drains fine. Don't think you "must" have the return higher than the oil level, although it is a little better. Fluids always drain to level, so unless the return line had a trap in it, it will drain fine. Heck, in a pinch to get to a car show, I stuck an adapter in the oil drain plug and it worked just fine haha. Of course was temporary, but it did work. As far as worrying about dripping back where the rotating assembly is, that's the same exact spot the oil runs back down the block from the head. You wouldn't be changing that dynamic, just adding a little more oil to the drain-back.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1481_5):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird I happen to have an ix here at work, which we will be turbo-ing once I have time to finish the floor pans. Haven't given it much thought about the drain..... Just went back there an looked. Nice open spot just as your first pic, but you could also do as the e36's do and go to the front of the pan where the higher area is and go in front. When going into the side of a pan on a RWD m20, the return bung is under the oil level, and drains fine. Don't think you "must" have the return higher than the oil level, although it is a little better. Fluids always drain to level, so unless the return line had a trap in it, it will drain fine. Heck, in a pinch to get to a car show, I stuck an adapter in the oil drain plug and it worked just fine haha. Of course was temporary, but it did work. As far as worrying about dripping back where the rotating assembly is, that's the same exact spot the oil runs back down the block from the head. You wouldn't be changing that dynamic, just adding a little more oil to the drain-back. That's all great information! Thank you! Would I need to worry about the piston rod hitting the drain at all or is there plenty of room? I guess my main concern was more that if I moved up from a location someone did it I'd risk some unseen complications. I'd prefer it to be above the bracket honestly in case I ever want to add AC back to the car. Also won't have to lower the engine to get enough room. Ok let's see how it goes. I have everything lined up, just haven't done it yet. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk