QUESTION ID: 1601

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, I’m chngining brake pads and noticed my caliper guide pin dust cover boot things are ripped and I’m having trouble finding replacements. Looks like it should be #10 on the attached realoem link but that doesn’t seem to be correct. Anyone know if these are available separate or do you have to purchase the guide pin kit? https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=34_0046 Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1601_0):
Yeah it's part 10. Not sure if those are even available seperatly. No need to get these from the dealer I would just get a replacement kit and replace the pins as well

ANSWER 2 (id: 1601_1):
Originally posted by D.Martijn Yeah it's part 10. Not sure if those are even available seperatly. No need to get these from the dealer I would just get a replacement kit and replace the pins as well Thanks D.Martijn! I’m just cheap! Trying to save a few bucks the kit is quite a bit more than just the “boot”.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1601_10):
Originally posted by E30andy Oh well, northern auto parts was a no go. I ordered the boots and the next day they refunded my money. No explanation but I’m assuming that they don’t have the boots in stock. Doesn’t look like theses are available separately anywhere else. D-Ohh... I should have replied with "Don't go thinking I'm any good before you have the part..." Can't get the caliper pin boots? Time for a BBK.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1601_11):
Originally posted by E30andy Just tried another option at Rockauto. They list caliper guide pin kit for just a few $, so I ordered it. I will update the thread when I get it in case anyone else cares to know. So I received the caliper pin guide boot kit from Rockauto and the "kit" is just the 4 rubber guide pin boots. Just what I needed! I ordered 4 "kits" so I have 16 boots right now (I only need 8). I would be happy to mail out the extras I have if anyone needs them. I should be able to just stick them in an envelope and mail regular postage, so no cost.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1601_12):
Just put those little f’ing booties on. Man they suck to install. I guess if I had a pick it would have made things easier. I ended up using 2 small hemostats but not a fun job!

ANSWER 6 (id: 1601_2):
you could try to just use rubber cement, and a patch piece of rubber if you are that cheap, the part doesnt flex that much, and if its a small tear might work well, just make sure you use aggresive sandpaper.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1601_4):
Originally posted by The Dark Side of Will RockAuto shows boot kits for <$10 just took a peek at RockAuto. They have the boot kit listed but it’s out of stock unfortunately.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1601_5):
Well now that you know the part number... Northern Auto Parts - Not Found http://www.northernautoparts.com/part/wh-h18001 Northern Auto Parts is your one-stop shop for all things automotive. Whether you need auto replacement parts or performance upgrades, we have what it takes to get the job done. Check out our site and browse the wide selection of engine, replacement, and racing products we have available online.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1601_6):
Originally posted by The Dark Side of Will Well now that you know the part number... http://www.northernautoparts.com/part/wh-h18001 Damn your good....

ANSWER 10 (id: 1601_7):
Oh well, northern auto parts was a no go. I ordered the boots and the next day they refunded my money. No explanation but I’m assuming that they don’t have the boots in stock. Doesn’t look like theses are available separately anywhere else.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1601_9):
Originally posted by roguetoaster The kit lists for something like $15 for pins, boots and bolts. Alternately, you can just get Centric rebuilt calipers for 40 each on FCP. Just tried another option at Rockauto. They list caliper guide pin kit for just a few $, so I ordered it. I will update the thread when I get it in case anyone else cares to know.