QUESTION ID: 2863

QUESTION:
Why do car shows need to start at 9-10am? I get the the fact that people that are inclined to organize a car show is the kind of person that gets up at 6 am on a weekend.....but that doesn't mean the rest of us has to. How about a car show that starts at 3pm-4pm....and we chill, grill , and hang. You know like NORMAL PEOPLE! If someone invited me to a hang at 10am on a Saturday, I would tell them to get a life. I'll be there at 3pm when the BBQ is warming up. Know what I mean?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2863_1):
no traffic, enjoying coffee, able to hang out with family/friends after. pluses, not getting sunburned, car doesn't over heat, wife isnt out of bed and demanding you do things. shows start so early to offer a better life to the attendees

ANSWER 2 (id: 2863_10):
Originally posted by wworm All the porsche guys around here do early shows because they go for a rip in the canyons before the show due to there being zero traffic anywhere at 7 am on a sunday. I was under the impression that porsche guys, being an older demographic, just naturally wake up at 5 Do porsche guys even rip canyons? I see more civics whipping it up out there than porsches...

ANSWER 3 (id: 2863_11):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I was under the impression that porsche guys, being an older demographic, just naturally wake up at 5 Do porsche guys even rip canyons? I see more civics whipping it up out there than porsches... sounds like you gotta start waking up earlier ;) The only time I see nice looking old cars being driven is when I'm up there before like 8. I always see the civics/other cheap jap cars after dark. Probably also has to do with the fact that old guys wake up at the buttcrack of dawn anyways.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2863_12):
This is exactly why I don't go to car events, everything starts way too damn early. I just don't function well before noon, I'm 40 and always been that way. I used to do it more back when I had friends that were into cars, but don't have that anymore since moving to California.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2863_2):
Originally posted by george graves NORMAL PEOPLE! I could be wrong, but I don’t think that’s how you spell lazy. Hahaha. Seriously though, if you have trouble with a morning car show AND beers and ‘que after, you might wanna have your doctor check you for low T. I hear they have meds for that now.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2863_3):
I like early shows. Makes me feel more productive when I wake up early, go look at cars, and then think about how I have the rest of my day to do something (read: lounge around).

ANSWER 7 (id: 2863_4):
Originally posted by george graves Why do car shows need to start at 9-10am? I get the the fact that people that are inclined to organize a car show is the kind of person that gets up at 6 am on a weekend.....but that doesn't mean the rest of us has to. How about a car show that starts at 3pm-4pm....and we chill, grill , and hang. You know like NORMAL PEOPLE! If someone invited me to a hang at 10am on a Saturday, I would tell them to get a life. I'll be there at 3pm when the BBQ is warming up. Know what I mean? What’s wrong George, that Matlock marathon keep you up past 8pm last night or are you afraid of missing the price is right in the morning. Normal folks don’t eat dinner at 4pm George.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2863_5):
Yea, yea yea. Chuckle it up knuckle heads ;) And for the record, it's re-runs of Beverly Hills 90210, not Matlock. I really hope Kelly and Brandon get back together. I stand by my point. 10am on a weekend.....is not a car show time. It's reheat-some-leftovers, figure-out-what-you're-going-to-do-with-the-dead hooker-and-relax-time Not wake up at 6am, wash the car, and drive a few hours. ;) Just saying.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2863_6):
Currently about to leave the house at 630am for a cars and coffee 1.5 hours away. Get to go for a cruise with friends, see some cars, have some coffee and be home by noon and still have the rest of the day to do other shit. I don't mind it!

ANSWER 10 (id: 2863_8):
Originally posted by Todd Black 88 What’s wrong George, that Matlock marathon keep you up past 8pm last night or are you afraid of missing the price is right in the morning. Normal folks don’t eat dinner at 4pm George. Originally posted by george graves Yea, yea yea. Chuckle it up knuckle heads ;) And for the record, it's re-runs of Beverly Hills 90210, not Matlock. I really hope Kelly and Brandon get back together. I stand by my point. 10am on a weekend.....is not a car show time. It's reheat-some-leftovers, figure-out-what-you're-going-to-do-with-the-dead hooker-and-relax-time Not wake up at 6am, wash the car, and drive a few hours. ;) Just saying. Originally posted by flyboyx come on man.....we know you were really watching "Murder, she wrote". Jeez you guys!!!! Making me feel old!

ANSWER 11 (id: 2863_9):
All the porsche guys around here do early shows because they go for a rip in the canyons before the show due to there being zero traffic anywhere at 7 am on a sunday.