QUESTION ID: 2512

QUESTION:
Hi, I'm kind of on a mission to find my old e30 that I sold back in 2011. The car was last located in Edmonton, Alberta Canada. I've googled to death and can't find anything at all related to this car. I can't find the guys contact information but I sold it as a rolling chassis with engine (bottom end needed a new block but included new rods, crank etc). I know he put an m30 in it.. kind of a shame since it the m20 was pretty badass... anyway besides the point... So I know the engine is gone and swapped out, but still would love to find the chassis. The last time I saw it, it wasn't really in great shape. Had the opportunity to buy it back but I didn't and regret it. I sold the car at the time because I needed the money for a business venture. Owned the car for 9 years and I'd really like to have it back and restore it. I've thought about just building another one, but kind of just something about having the same car back that is appealing. Also, the bodykit is custom made and only 3 of those front bumpers were ever produced (long story), so it's pretty much impossible to replicate. Honestly I can't remember if he changed the wheels or not.. the car has corvette z06 rotors and calipers, that's super distinct so it might help. If anyone has any tips on how I can get in touch with the current owner. I do know that the kid I sold it to was a member on the forum, but really I can't find anything.. I tried. Thanks a lot for any help. Attached pics of my build before I sold the car so you have something to look at and talk about lol. I have no idea how it looks currently. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2512_1):
Do you still have the cars vin. You could run it through carfax and it will give you registration information so you can narrow down your search location

ANSWER 2 (id: 2512_10):
Originally posted by varg M30s were cool until the M54B30 swaps started. There's just no reason to choose an M30 over an M54 now apart from trying to be period correct, especially if you're staying NA. I suppose an M30 swap is easier but that's about the only advantage. Well I definitely agree, to be honest if I got the car back I would probably put an S54 in there and turbo that.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2512_5):
Well, I found the guy and he was a total douche about it. He was super rude and then asked for 20k while mentioning the car is apart right now. Forget it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2512_6):
Originally posted by varg Dang, who replaces a 440hp M20 with Ti rods with an M30? Yeah, and if I remember right he put an m30b30 in it which kind of defeats the purpose.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2512_7):
Originally posted by pld0vr Well, I found the guy and he was a total douche about it. He was super rude and then asked for 20k while mentioning the car is apart right now. Forget it. Well that's depressing. Would be nice if he keeps you in mind when he gets sick of it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2512_8):
Originally posted by pld0vr Well, I found the guy and he was a total douche about it. He was super rude and then asked for 20k while mentioning the car is apart right now. Forget it. Is it listed anywhere? The R3V community will happily "remind" this guy what the car is actually worth and maybe he will come around. Play it cool and go get some pics. Never know.. Still a shame about the motor though M30s are kinda cool, but not when compared to what was in it

ANSWER 7 (id: 2512_9):
M30s were cool until the M54B30 swaps started. There's just no reason to choose an M30 over an M54 now apart from trying to be period correct, especially if you're staying NA. I suppose an M30 swap is easier but that's about the only advantage.