QUESTION ID: 2873

QUESTION:
Hey all, Just posting on something I built for myself that I feel maybe others in the community would want for their e30 as well: I present the e30 Harness Bar/chassis brace/GoPro Mount! I built it myself in my shop (garage, ha!) and am considering making more. The bar ties into the body at 4 OEM locations and uses the same hardware as the existing restraints. It is a 1.5" tube with 1" tubular supports. It is MIG and TIG welded and uses beefy 3/16 end plates with 3/8 hardware. The main bar is height adjustable and the suppports also adjust using threaded spherical joints. They bolt together with stainless hardware. I think the finished product is awesome. I'm going to drive it around for a few days and make sure it doesn't need any modifications before I take it to get powdercoated (although it looks awesome raw IMO). Please enjoy the pics! Installed: Thanks for looking and let me know what you think! -G

ANSWER 1 (id: 2873_1):
It's generally a bad idea to run a harness without at least a roll bar. When you roll over and your roof comes crashing down on your head your harness holds you nice and vertical so you get crunched.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2873_10):
Originally posted by TravisAsch Just because it's a proven concept, it doesn't mean it's right! It may not be for you and thats cool, but the functionality is in fact there for those that want it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2873_2):
Not every one wants a weld in cage, or a bolt in for that matter. I guess my thinking here is to develop a product that is fairly popular on most other chassis' out there that provides decent bracing at low cost and is easy to remove/install if you still need your back seat. My principle hope is that it stiffens up my aging e30's chassis! dasmanschaft012 - not sure on legality for race-use, I'm sure it varies from organization to organization.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2873_3):
Originally posted by stuman It's generally a bad idea to run a harness without at least a roll bar. When you roll over and your roof comes crashing down on your head your harness holds you nice and vertical so you get crunched. I like this noob I'm looking at those pics and have no idea what this does but I think it would have worked to restrain my former mother in law

ANSWER 5 (id: 2873_8):
I like the idea of an official E30 harness bar but it shouldn't be expensive like the sparco one which is like $400-500. Harness bars shouldn't be that expensive and decent universal ones go for like $150.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2873_9):
Originally posted by stuman It's generally a bad idea to run a harness without at least a roll bar. When you roll over and your roof comes crashing down on your head your harness holds you nice and vertical so you get crunched. Easy fix - don't roll over. I kid, I kid. With that said, I wouldn't run a full cage on the street either.