QUESTION ID: 1933

QUESTION:
Hey guys, just ordered 2x Recaro Pole Positions for my 1988 BMW E30 325iS. I am beyond excited, cant wait for them to come in closer to the end of the month...I had a question regarding brackets and mounting gear -My car has close to 300k on the clock, and I think the stock mounting rails are pretty trashed, so if possible, id like all new brackets, sliders, and hardware. Anyone have recommendations on specific part #s and/or links I can follow to get this done? Id pretty much like to make all the seats contact and mounting points brand new. -What mounting equipment and sliders should I be looking for If I want the seat mounted as low as possible, as I am very much on the taller side Thanks in advance everyone

ANSWER 1 (id: 1933_0):
Those are nice looking seats! The E30 seat mounting is a bit unique in that its basically 4 bolts pointing up from a flat floor plate. most cars have chassis bits that stick up that sort of raise the seat up a bit. I made my own seat rails for some seats and I am quite tall myself (i am 180cm, just on 6ft), and found that I didn't actually have to mount the seats that low in order to get them low enough for me, what I am getting at is that you may not want it as low as you think. First thing to do is remove the old seat, and plonk the new seat directly on the floor and see where it seats in relation to where you want it. I suspect it will be way to low. the steering wheel angle is also weird on the e30, sort of points up a bit compared to modern cars. Your options for aftermarket seats are typically bottom mount vs side mount. bottom mount generally speaking mounts the seats higher than side mount. but bottom mount also has much easier sliding mechanisms. Side mount you can typically get the seat very low, but is often fixed as there is nowhere for the sliding mechanism to fit. but like i said above, with the design of the e30 seat mounting system and floor you can get the seats quite low whilst utilising a bottom mound setup. Side mounts are often bolted directly to the floor for uber rigidity - no adjustment. here is a typical bottom mount sliding mechanism, you can see how low profile it is, 2x Crank Motorsport BMW E30 Seat Adapter Rail – Suit BRIDE RECARO SPARCO Croydon, Melbourne, Victoria https://crankmotorsport.com.au/product/2x-crank-motorsport-bmw-e30-seat-adapter-rail-suit-bride-recaro-sparco/ Buy 2x Crank Motorsport BMW E30 Seat Adapter Rail – Suit BRIDE RECARO SPARCO. Shop online auto body used parts, race seats and seat rail adapters for your premium car in VIC, NSW, QLD, Perth, Ringwood, Bayswater, Kilsyth, Mooroolbark, Warranwood, Heathmont, Montrose, Park Orchards. Here is a typical side mount that i quickly found (not for e30 apparently, but very similar design) you can see that the seat can sit lower between the sliding mechanisms. but as above you, might not need it that low. Macht Schnell Clubsport Seat Mount for BMW 1M M2 M3 M4 E46 E82 E90 E92 https://modeautoconcepts.com/products/macht-schnell-motorsports-clubsport-seat-mount-for-racing-seats-for-bmw-1-series-inc-1m-e82-e88-2-series-inc-m2-f87-3-series-inc-m3-e46-e90-e91-e92-f30-f80-4-series-inc-m4-f32-f82 Macht Schnell Motorsports Clubsport Seat Mount for Racing Seats for BMW 1-Series inc. 1M E82 E88 2-Series inc. M2 F87 3-Series inc. M3 E46 E90 E91 E92 F30 F80 4 Series inc. M4 F32 F82 A full turnkey seating solution for most race shells. Comes complete with mounting brackets, sliders, and adjustment mechanisms. Lightwe

ANSWER 2 (id: 1933_1):
did you source the adapters already ? personally i'd clean up the original rails if possible. new ones won't be cheap. there is an issue with some aftermarket seats sitting too tall, there is a supplier on the board who makes a couple different adapters for the fix.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1933_10):
Originally posted by Lars30 Thanks everyone for all the info - I ended up getting connected with Lee from Massive Brakes. I got a floor mount for the driver side, and im gonna keep the passenger side on sliders for rear access. Super excited to get rolling! good thinking.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1933_2):
Originally posted by 82eye did you source the adapters already ? personally i'd clean up the original rails if possible. new ones won't be cheap. there is an issue with some aftermarket seats sitting too tall, there is a supplier on the board who makes a couple different adapters for the fix. No, I have not ordered anything yet besides the seats. Ive heard a couple people say something similar - As of right now, the seats feels a little flimsy and will sometimes move when I go over a huge bump. I wonder if thats the rails, or just the structure of the seat. Do u happen to have a link or part number to the adapters that ensure the seat doesnt sit too high?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1933_3):
Originally posted by e30davie Those are nice looking seats! The E30 seat mounting is a bit unique in that its basically 4 bolts pointing up from a flat floor plate. most cars have chassis bits that stick up that sort of raise the seat up a bit. I made my own seat rails for some seats and I am quite tall myself (i am 180cm, just on 6ft), and found that I didn't actually have to mount the seats that low in order to get them low enough for me, what I am getting at is that you may not want it as low as you think. First thing to do is remove the old seat, and plonk the new seat directly on the floor and see where it seats in relation to where you want it. I suspect it will be way to low. the steering wheel angle is also weird on the e30, sort of points up a bit compared to modern cars. Your options for aftermarket seats are typically bottom mount vs side mount. bottom mount generally speaking mounts the seats higher than side mount. but bottom mount also has much easier sliding mechanisms. Side mount you can typically get the seat very low, but is often fixed as there is nowhere for the sliding mechanism to fit. but like i said above, with the design of the e30 seat mounting system and floor you can get the seats quite low whilst utilising a bottom mound setup. Side mounts are often bolted directly to the floor for uber rigidity - no adjustment. here is a typical bottom mount sliding mechanism, you can see how low profile it is, 2x Crank Motorsport BMW E30 Seat Adapter Rail – Suit BRIDE RECARO SPARCO Croydon, Melbourne, Victoria https://crankmotorsport.com.au/product/2x-crank-motorsport-bmw-e30-seat-adapter-rail-suit-bride-recaro-sparco/ Buy 2x Crank Motorsport BMW E30 Seat Adapter Rail – Suit BRIDE RECARO SPARCO. Shop online auto body used parts, race seats and seat rail adapters for your premium car in VIC, NSW, QLD, Perth, Ringwood, Bayswater, Kilsyth, Mooroolbark, Warranwood, Heathmont, Montrose, Park Orchards. Here is a typical side mount that i quickly found (not for e30 apparently, but very similar design) you can see that the seat can sit lower between the sliding mechanisms. but as above you, might not need it that low. Macht Schnell Clubsport Seat Mount for BMW 1M M2 M3 M4 E46 E82 E90 E92 https://modeautoconcepts.com/products/macht-schnell-motorsports-clubsport-seat-mount-for-racing-seats-for-bmw-1-series-inc-1m-e82-e88-2-series-inc-m2-f87-3-series-inc-m3-e46-e90-e91-e92-f30-f80-4-series-inc-m4-f32-f82 Macht Schnell Motorsports Clubsport Seat Mount for Racing Seats for BMW 1-Series inc. 1M E82 E88 2-Series inc. M2 F87 3-Series inc. M3 E46 E90 E91 E92 F30 F80 4 Series inc. M4 F32 F82 A full turnkey seating solution for most race shells. Comes complete with mounting brackets, sliders, and adjustment mechanisms. Lightwe I hear ya man, and a lot of other ppl have said something similar. I am 6' 4"+ and weigh probably 205-215lbs depending on lifestyle. 32/33 pant if that is any reference. Currently if I sit up straight, I cant see the top of my tach, speedo/gauge cluster. Again, id still like to be able to slide but id rather be low than be able to slide. Based on this info, is there one of those products youd specifically recommend? Seems you have some pretty good knowledge on the topic! Thanks brother

ANSWER 6 (id: 1933_4):
Interior / Seats & Accessories / Race Seat Installation Kits – VAC Motorsports Online Store https://store.vacmotorsports.com/race-seat-installation-kits-c550.aspx VAC Motorsports provides BMW and Mini Performance Parts and Service; BMW Engines and Racing Gear, Suspensions, Safety Equipments, Rollcages, Street and Track performance components, and Custom Fabrications

ANSWER 7 (id: 1933_5):
Seat Mount https://www.garagistic.com/collections/seat-mount Garagistic is your trusted source for high-quality BMW performance parts, specializing in E30, E36, E46, and more. Discover custom-engineered components, from suspension upgrades to drivetrain solutions, designed to enhance your BMW's performance. Shop now for fast shipping, expert support, and unparalleled quality. https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-classified-forums/product-reviews/385287-recaro-seat-adapters-by-garagistic#post10083792

ANSWER 8 (id: 1933_6):
Originally posted by Lars30 I hear ya man, and a lot of other ppl have said something similar. I am 6' 4"+ and weigh probably 205-215lbs depending on lifestyle. 32/33 pant if that is any reference. Currently if I sit up straight, I cant see the top of my tach, speedo/gauge cluster. Again, id still like to be able to slide but id rather be low than be able to slide. Based on this info, is there one of those products youd specifically recommend? Seems you have some pretty good knowledge on the topic! Thanks brother I cant recommend any products im afraid as Ive just made my own (in also in australia). In other cars have always just used genuine recaro seat rails (nissan s15) and they seeemd high quality. id be looking at one of them if such a thing exists for e30. but yer, id be removing your current seat and plonking your aftermarket one in on the floor and see where it sits. With my current 350mm steering wheel i cant see the top of the gauges either. but i made my seat lower but then i felt too low in the car. e30 has a bit of an odd seating position thats for sure.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1933_7):
I can't imagine it would be easy or worth-while to try and use stock sliders with aftermarket side-mount seats. You can use side-mounts and sliders of your choice with those seats. Recaro makes nice looking side-mounts for a bit of flare. The VAC option is pretty popular, as linked above. There are a lot of options for side-mounts and sliders.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1933_8):
Thanks everyone for all the info - I ended up getting connected with Lee from Massive Brakes. I got a floor mount for the driver side, and im gonna keep the passenger side on sliders for rear access. Super excited to get rolling!

ANSWER 11 (id: 1933_9):
Lee's adaptors are good. On my Recaro LXs I ended up putting risers under the seats to lift them up 30mm as I got tired of how low they were with my lowered car, but the quality was good. Helmets wouldn't have been a problem with them.