QUESTION ID: 1206

QUESTION:
Experiencing a confusing stalling issue. Looking for help diagnosing/fixing. Basically, when I start up the car, it turns over and starts fine. It then idles for between 2 and 4 minutes, then quits. Won't immediately re-start. Has to cool down for 1 to 3 minutes, and then re-starts normally. The process then repeats (starts fine, runs 2-4 minutes, stalls). Doesn't matter if the engine is warm, or if the car is moving. This leads me to think it's an ignition issue. Could it be the DME quitting on me? Other than this, the car runs fine (when it did run). Here are details on potential hardware issues: Catalytic converter is new. Injectors and fuel filter have <1,000 mi. Plugs/wires/coil, O2/Lambda sensor, coolant temp sensors (brown and blue) all have <2,000 mi. Battery is fully charged, has <2,000 mi. Running a Turner Motorsports chip, no issues in 3,000 mi. up to this point. Any help is appreciated. X-post to s14.net.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1206_1):
Hard to answer 'yes' or 'no' to your question. I assume I do have both of those things, because the engine runs normally up until the point it stalls. It then restarts normally after a couple minutes. How do I determine which of these two systems quits while the engine is running normally, then simply stops? When it stalls, it doesn't sputter to a stop, it turns off as though the ignition key were turned off. This tells me it could be a spark issues, and not so much fuel.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1206_3):
Went through this as well. Mine ended up being the ECU. Turns out, as soon as it starts to warm some solder connections would get loose and stop the car.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1206_4):
I've not replaced any relays. Do I do a resistance test of some kind on each one? I guess I should ask around to see if anyone has a spare ECU I can test... Anyone in the South Bay Area have an ECU I can borrow to test? (edit, posted request over to NorCal regional thread)

ANSWER 4 (id: 1206_5):
Follow-up: Thanks for the great suggestions. I figured out the problem, and it was much closer to "the nut behind the wheel." With the car running (roughly), I opened the glove box to assess removing the ECU. I then closed the glove box firmly, and the car shuddered and nearly stalled. I repeated this a few times, and the car would stutter every time I closed the glove box. So, loose connection around there somewhere. I removed the ECU, and saw that my TMS chip had shaken itself loose. Recall that the chip is mounted upside down in the ECU when it's all buttoned up in the car. I firmly clicked the chip back into its socket, reinstalled the ECU, and the car is running like a champ.Thanks again.