QUESTION ID: 2758

QUESTION:
I work at America's Tire in a college town and I've noticed there are just a fuckton of Asian kids who's parents ship them over here for school and buy them brand new luxury/sports cars. It's insane how many of them there are. So far I've seen them with brand new: -Land Rover LR3 -Range Rover Sport -335i coupe -335i sedan -650i -X6M -X6 -GT-R (x2) -Mercedes C-Class -Mitsubishi Lancer Evo X MR -Mustang GT-500 I know I'm forgetting a few more. And just today a pack of them came in with a GranTurismo and a C63 AMG coupe. The kid in the AMG took two attempts at parking in between the white lines and still failed miserably. They then nonchalantly ordered a new set of PZeros for the Maserati that ran them more than two grand. Does anyone else that lives in a college town notive this trend? Maybe I just notice it more because, living in Eugene, we rarely see something nicer than an E92 M3 (god damn hippies and their Priuses).

ANSWER 1 (id: 2758_0):
Uh yeah kinda a norm if you ask me. Whenever I see a super nice car around SDSU area it is ALWAYS driven by either an asian kid or a middle eastern kid. I've seen like 5 different GT-Rs, a few AMG's, god knows how many e46 and e92 M3's, new STI's, couple of Maserati's, aaaand to top it off there is this middle eastern kid in my apartment complex (or the one next to it) that has a new bentley. Which he parks in the street...

ANSWER 2 (id: 2758_1):
pretty common now. in fact, even at my university those fucking asian kids drove nice cars yet they bitched about high tuition. Effin A, they ought to learn how to drive first before handling a nice car. Surprisingly, at least the student customers in your area don't cheap out and order actual high end parts for their cars. I'm used to seeing bargain hunters slapping on the cheapest crap on their car. It's pretty common now, older generation of asians save so their children can have better lives. Children then squander it in return on materialism. Common to see asian kids to finance a car for the rest of their lives instead of saving for a down payment on a home. disgusting... I will admit that my parents bought an e46 and let me drive it to college while they drove a crappy honda. then I felt disgusted so I quickly gave it back to them the first week of school after seeing how smug my fellow students were. I was car-less for most of college until I bought an e30 right after I secured a job (a month before graduation) but at least I had my honor and pride back knowing that I earned my car and got out of school debt free I'm asian btw.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2758_10):
Did you see that special on the news? They have baby houses everywhere here so their women can come here to have their baby so that the baby is a US citizen and can go to school here etc. It's messed up.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2758_11):
When I lived in Eugene in the early 80's it was mostly middle eastern kids who had nice euro cars.Maybe some of the sponsored runners,too.The rich white frat boys had new Trans-ams,and some plain looking local cars would go hunting for them on weekends to make a few quick bucks.Not that I would know anything about that.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2758_2):
hate it kinda why im building a car to smash on everything it sees it might not be luxury, but i'll be DAMNED if you think you're waffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswafflesy rich ass can drive like i can

ANSWER 6 (id: 2758_3):
Originally posted by O HELLA BMW YOU MAD brO? A GranTurismo is kinda my dream daily driver (mostly because it's so fucking pretty) and I hate seeing it owned by some kid who had it handed to him and can barely drive. So yes, very mad lol. So I guess it's pretty common. I just don't get it. Every rich Asian kid I've known who has grown up here has hard-ass parents who make them work for everything, but these kids are being handed $120,000 Italian GT cars.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2758_5):
im korean and i didnt even have a car when i was in highschool lol. i didnt go to college and my parents didnt have much money anyway. but they spent all there savings and started a business which over 10 years has been very successful so they bought me my E93 335i vert for my 24 birthday and i run 1 of my parents businesses now and i love it ....

ANSWER 8 (id: 2758_6):
Originally posted by devon.818 it might not be luxury, but i'll be DAMNED if you think you're waffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswafflesy rich ass can drive like i can I don't give two shits about luxury features (like all the gizmos in a 7-series or S-class), I just care about the quality of the materials. I could live with just power windows and locks if everything else was covered in gorgeous leather, wood, and metal.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2758_7):
OSU has tons of these. Couple GT-R's rolling around. Land Rovers, Mercedes you name it. It's not all of them though, my roommate is asian and he doesn't have shit.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2758_8):
Is this Oregon State? my girl goes there and when I visit her I see this middle eastern kid in a yellow corvette just driving around trying to pick up girls.