QUESTION ID: 426

QUESTION:
Hey there guys, the deeper I've been diving into the LS swap (on my wife's 1987 325i) the more I've been pushing off this interior wiring lol. I've gotten the engine side done but inside is a DISASTER. Previous owner (I was told) replaced the fuse/relay box by cutting it out and crimping all the wires together on the new one. I've been working to trace all the wires and so far I think I've gotten most of the dash lighting and tach stuff done, as well as HVAC controls and window controls. I feel like I am seeing double with some of the harnesses that are just cut and not linked to anything. Was wondering if anyone has any picture reference or anything for these wires. I looked through the wiring diagram on e30 zone and it seems like there are a lot of the same wires given the color coding on the diagram. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 426_0):
You've downloaded the wiring book for your car? https://www.rtsauto.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/e30_87.pdf Factory splice locations are at 8000-2 onwards. If you run an OCR program on that PDF you can search by splice location and it'll show you what is all in each part of the harness. And remember wire colour codes are in german!

ANSWER 2 (id: 426_1):
Originally posted by Panici You've downloaded the wiring book for your car? https://www.rtsauto.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/e30_87.pdf Factory splice locations are at 8000-2 onwards. If you run an OCR program on that PDF you can search by splice location and it'll show you what is all in each part of the harness. And remember wire colour codes are in german! Thanks for the reply. I'll throw that into adobe and see what I can scrounge up. I did not know about the colors. That probably explains a lot lol. I didn't have another e30 harness for reference so I was just making sure that this was not a half-a***d attempt at merging two different harnesses which would result in some duplicate stuff that's not needed (been there done that). I'm patching the e30 harness into the stock LS ECM so trying to make sure everything lines up and is functional interior wise. Standalone might have been an easier move here..... but hindsight is 20/20. Subaru guy by trade, so it's a little bit of a learning curve on these older BMW's for me I'm going to try to finish out this project engine side this weekend and then try to dive into this next weekend. Thanks for the info, anything helps!