QUESTION ID: 2774

QUESTION:
Hey guys, After seeing the 68k mile car for sale, I decided I might as well ask and see if anybody would like to estimate the value of my car. I need to decide if I should sell it and buy a different car, or build this one. -1968 325e -Rebuilt head -Auto -New Nason paint (coming soon) -New front fenders (coming coon) -New brake lines -Pacific blue houndstooth interior -Arktisblau metallic exterior -Stainless braided brake lines -Ireland Engineering subframe bushings -Eibach springs and new shocks (awaiting install) Pics in another post.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2774_1):
I dont see how putting the money into restoring this car would be worth it. 4 door automatic eta in a not very desirable color combo. Can you prove the mileage to be accurate? Its pretty easy to get into the clusters and set mileage to whatever you want. I feel like ive seen this car on NY craigslist forever for about $1500.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2774_11):
Originally posted by e30davie Sounds like the only thing low milage about the car is maybe the odometer. Just put it in order. Drive it and enjoy. The carfax checks out. Its low mileage, and the interior shows it. The engine bores look brand new. This car lived in Canada and in the salt belt. Its rusty from salt and neglect, not high mileage. Not that that's any better though. Sent from my SM-G930U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 2774_12):
Carfax means nothing. Esp in Canada as many cars weren't even registered with it until 2000. Seems the front fenders were either swapped out or had signals added to them.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2774_13):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Carfax means nothing. Esp in Canada as many cars weren't even registered with it until 2000. Seems the front fenders were either swapped out or had signals added to them. I'm the third owner. It was owned by an older man, then a father and son who bought it as a project and ruined it, then I got it. I've torn apart many m20's of various ages. From what I can tell, this car is genuinely a 64k car. It was just neglected all its life. I have been told that the fender repeaters may have some factory on Canadian market cars, but I cannot verify this. I like them though, and I'm going to keep them on the car. Sent from my SM-G930U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 2774_2):
IMHO to get any extra cash from the low mileage, the car needs to be factory mint (ie. a survivor car, with factory paint etc. etc.). Restored is restored. When a car has clearly sat out in the elements like that one has, it's likely to need a lot replaced at which point it's really not worth anything extra over a higher mileage, restored car.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2774_3):
Originally posted by ttrousdell I dont see how putting the money into restoring this car would be worth it. 4 door automatic eta in a not very desirable color combo. Can you prove the mileage to be accurate? Its pretty easy to get into the clusters and set mileage to whatever you want. I feel like ive seen this car on NY craigslist forever for about $1500. Yup, this is the same car that was on craigslist. It runs a whole lot better than it did before. My thoughts are similar to yours, but I'm glad to hear the same opinions from others. Not to worry, I already have a 325is motor and getrag 260 sitting in the barn. I need to track down a faster rack now. Sent from my SM-G930U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 2774_4):
Just remember, once you swap it the car will cease to be a low mileage car and become a "modified" car, no matter if your mods are OE or make the car better. Also, from a long time sedan owner, very few people desire them for whatever reason.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2774_6):
Originally posted by e30davie Why does a 64,000 mile car need a rebuilt head? Good question, and I dont have an answer. The cam was destroyed, one lobe was severely grooved. That cam lobe had a replacement rocker in it. This car was never teenager owned until I got my hands on it. I really have no idea how that happened. Sent from my SM-G930U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 9 (id: 2774_7):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Also, from a long time sedan owner, very few people desire them for whatever reason. It's an interesting one that. The coupe and sedan are virtually the same shape, they drive almost identically (with the sedan actually being less flexy than the coupe), and depending on your situation the sedan is actually the better option - yet the coupes are more desirable and subsequently more expensive. It's not like the contrast between say an e90 vs an e92, where they're quite different looking cars in a lot of ways.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2774_9):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i It's an interesting one that. The coupe and sedan are virtually the same shape, they drive almost identically (with the sedan actually being less flexy than the coupe), and depending on your situation the sedan is actually the better option - yet the coupes are more desirable and subsequently more expensive. It's not like the contrast between say an e90 vs an e92, where they're quite different looking cars in a lot of ways. I agree, and I actually looked for a four door. I'm a collegiate NCAA rifle shooter, so I needed the rear doors to take rifle cases in and out of the back seats. I also think sedans look better too. Sent from my SM-G930U using Tapatalk