QUESTION ID: 2805

QUESTION:
I tried starting a new wanted thread and is telling me to register with Panjo, what is that, is annoying, is this something new.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2805_1):
Originally posted by Replicam3cabrio I tried starting a new wanted thread and is telling me to register with Panjo, what is that, is annoying, is this something new. Plus they take 10% of your gross sales, not much better than ebay.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2805_10):
I've used Panjo on bimmerforums for awhile now (matter of fact just sold something last week) without paying a fee. Have had many trouble free transactions with the service. Signing up here for the simple fact that running this site takes up a large chunk of time (none of which James is paid for) and this forum has provided a ton of information over the years. Will adjust prices accordingly and use this as a way to give back since the site has always been free. But then again I'm an old fekker that's been around for awhile

ANSWER 3 (id: 2805_11):
read everything:) Well, I have been using Pango for years over on Bimmerforums. It works fine over there, but I like the idea that you can just contact the buyer and not pay the fees. I for one, would be glad to just send a donation to R3v each year.:) It is a little tricky to work through the set up, and if you have an account over on Bimmerforums; be careful that you change the location of where you want it posted:). Anything that keeps this forum going I am for! jm btw, my virus software does not like something here on r3v; keep getting notices that r3v is being blocked....according to my computer friends it could be advertising or maybe Pango. Just started up this part month????

ANSWER 4 (id: 2805_12):
Originally posted by Replicam3cabrio Membership fees once a year is one thing 6% everytime you sell something is different. What's the difference? If you sell $300 worth of parts in a calendar year, R3V gets $10 from you that year. We've been asking sellers to adjust their prices to include fees in them for years. If prices for everything go up 5% accordingly, and R3V gets 70% of that increase, that's a good thing.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2805_13):
Originally posted by Court M3 Will adjust prices accordingly and use this as a way to give back since the site has always been free. Originally posted by 2002jm Anything that keeps this forum going I am for! Thanks for the positive attitudes fellas. :up:

ANSWER 6 (id: 2805_2):
This is it for me, not registering for it, I thought the r3vlimited was a like a enthusiasts, community place, if r3vlimited wants to charge a fee to be a member I am not opposed to it, but I've never heard of panjo, and if I have to register my credit card I am not doing it, plus if I sell anything they take 10%, for that I just list on ebay, BS.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2805_4):
Originally posted by Replicam3cabrio if r3vlimited wants to charge a fee to be a member I am not opposed to it Because that worked out so well for E30 Tech.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2805_5):
I like this site, have been a member since 2006, but this is it for me, never heard of panjo, they offer no protection and they take a percentage, don't need another uncle sam

ANSWER 9 (id: 2805_6):
I am not going to be setting up a panjo, no intrest at all. And after reading the linked thread, there is just plainly way to many unknowns to be willing to give them my info. I stopped using paypal because frankly, they became a crap service in regards to protection for a seller.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2805_7):
Originally posted by rcsoundn1 I am not going to be setting up a panjo, no intrest at all Same. I like the simplicity of old setup. Just post a quick description with price and pic and your done. Now all this registering shit is to much. Should of made a separate market place section with panjo only to test the r3v waters not plunge us in balls deep right away.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2805_8):
I think if it works for the largest BMW forum in the world, it will probably end up working okay for us. It's hypocritical to make the argument that it would be okay to charge a membership fee to participate on this forum, but refuse to let a third party handle the transaction to do so. By advertising through Panjo you actually do contribute funds to the forum, which is more than we can say for 99.98% of everyone who visits here.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2805_9):
Membership fees Membership fees once a year is one thing 6% everytime you sell something is different. Originally posted by agent I think if it works for the largest BMW forum in the world, it will probably end up working okay for us. It's hypocritical to make the argument that it would be okay to charge a membership fee to participate on this forum, but refuse to let a third party handle the transaction to do so. By advertising through Panjo you actually do contribute funds to the forum, which is more than we can say for 99.98% of everyone who visits here.