QUESTION ID: 236

QUESTION:
I've had a set of BR Racing BR coilovers on my E30 for around 7 or so years and the car's been through a handful of track days until I moved out of state a couple years ago and until recently the car's been sitting in the garage most of the time. My driveway angle is steep so whenever I get out of the garage the entire exhaust piping would be scraping even though the car is not that low. So I decided to raise the car up so I can drive the car more and only after spraying the locking collar with some kroil penetrating oil was I able to loosen the locking ring/collar. Since I'm trying to raise the car up about an inch it didn't matter but I was hoping that spraying the oil near the bottom of the threaded portion of the tube would help me turn the entire coilover. I only got about a half a turn before it got stuck and the thing won't budge. After double checking the direction of which way to turn the ring I know I'm turning in the correct direction (left to right) (lefty loosey if looking from top down). Anyone have any suggestions/tips of what else I can try or if I should be spraying some oil near the top of the tube if that makes any difference or is it getting stuck/seized from the bottom portion...I don't know. Both sides at the front is behaving the same way and I even purchased some aftermarket spanner wrenches that were thicker and had more "bit" to grab onto the notches of the collar/ring. I'm not sure what else I can try at this point so any ideas would be appreciated. I'm even considering taking it to a shop but since I'm new to the PNW I haven't reached out for shop suggestions near me (Beaverton OR). Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 236_0):
Coilover threads are often so fine it does not take not take much to seize bind them up. There is no real single solution other than start with easy things and work up. plenty of WD40, or pb blaster (i think you get that over there), soak the threads in that for a few days, attack the threads with a wire brush to remove all the grit. and hopefully work the threads back and forwards to try and remove the grit that is already stuck- as you have doing I had a set of coil overs get properly stuck a few years ago (not an e30 - s15 silvia), mine was so bad i eventually had to get them out of the car and put them in a vice and attach with a large pipe wrench...eventually got it but it was a struggle all the way off.

ANSWER 2 (id: 236_1):
Originally posted by e30davie Coilover threads are often so fine it does not take not take much to seize bind them up. There is no real single solution other than start with easy things and work up. plenty of WD40, or pb blaster (i think you get that over there), soak the threads in that for a few days, attack the threads with a wire brush to remove all the grit. and hopefully work the threads back and forwards to try and remove the grit that is already stuck- as you have doing I had a set of coil overs get properly stuck a few years ago (not an e30 - s15 silvia), mine was so bad i eventually had to get them out of the car and put them in a vice and attach with a large pipe wrench...eventually got it but it was a struggle all the way off. Thanks for your tip. I'll continue to use the wire brush and soak it with the penetrating oil. Worst case I'll have to find a shop that knows their way around E30s and E30 modifications. I just want to drive the car already. Sheesh. Anyone else have any tips I'm all ears. Thanks