QUESTION ID: 2178

QUESTION:
Hey, I am in the process of wiring in a gopro hero 4 with a modified charging base, into my E30 320i race car. The car build was done by a good group of guys, but sadly I am on my own trying to do something basic, and I'm new to this. I'm thinking of using a fuse tap in the fuse box, and then running the cable through the firewall into the cabin to the camera. I need a switched circuit. I've been struggling to find a suitable access point - any advise would be very welcome. If there is any better source I can tap, splice in the cabin, also very helpful. Thanks Phil

ANSWER 1 (id: 2178_0):
The fuse box may have an aux fuses on the side. Id consider 12v as the go pros get glitchy at low voltage and could charge with key off. Do you have a kill switch? Some sanctioning bodies allow a bypass for cameras and such.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2178_1):
Originally posted by moatilliatta The fuse box may have an aux fuses on the side. Id consider 12v as the go pros get glitchy at low voltage and could charge with key off. Do you have a kill switch? Some sanctioning bodies allow a bypass for cameras and such. Yes there is a kill switch in the cabin. It rotates right to turn the power on. There is another switch to the right which is ignition on position, and then a starter button. Yes I think I need 12v for the gopro. This might be dumb, but would I be OK using a fuse tap on any 10 amp fuse in the main fuse box, or do I need to look for the aux fuses area?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2178_2):
This plug is usually sealed from factory, instead of completely popping it out like in the pic you can just cut a small slit in it. It will pop out right under the fusebox.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2178_3):
Originally posted by noid This plug is usually sealed from factory, instead of completely popping it out like in the pic you can just cut a small slit in it. It will pop out right under the fusebox. Thank you for this info. I have found this on the car so that's great. Whilst looking in the cabin I noticed an additional fuse box has been installed near to the passenger foot well tunnel, as part of the race car build. I was able to find a switched positive. So my plan is to use a fuse tap and create a new circuit with a 5amp fuse for the go pro from this new internal fuse box.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2178_4):
I also found adding a cigar lighter outlet usually works better then add a USB adapter into one of those, plus you have a slot to add power to other items. I have had failures in the 12v to 5v usb hardwired adapters.