QUESTION ID: 2849

QUESTION:
Just curious what a car like this is worth to the right buyer. Here's a video of the car for reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZzTg1GoOxo And yes I'm that smug face douche in real life too lol. Also since that video the car has gone through many changes like aero front and rear, and is currently in the process of getting some major upgrades. Current upgrades being done are heater core delete, full cage, RTD shifter, interior wire clean up, kill switch, cluster restoration with 9K tach overlay, crackless dash, rear sub frame overhaul with solid akg bushings and camber/toe tabs welded in, fire extinguisher, brake ducting, ST45 pads front and rear, new axles, corner balance/alignment, etc. This car has gone sub 2 minutes at Buttonwillow in CW#13 with myself driving on 225/45 r15s (nitto nt01) before the major mods being performed at the moment. Ive done a ton of maintenance over the years of ownerhip, the last being a full vanos overhaul with Beisan oil pump disk, Dr Vanos cyro treated exhaust hub, oem hardware/gaskets, and valve adjustment. Its makes me a little sick somethings thinking about all the coin Ive dropped into this brick but it sure is a riot. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2849_0):
I think its really hard to say. It would be worth a decent amount to someone who wants a track car that is pretty much done and has a great power plant. But it would actually be worth a lot less to the average E30 buyer who wants a restored daily due to the heater core delete, cage etc. The bigger money is in the cars that are closer to stock. I am thinking $10-12k but I could be really off, I am not sure how much people pay for track E30's. If it was a restored E30 with an S54 you are probably talking $20-$30k depending on the state of the restore. I know Jordan's went for a lot and he only had an M54 in it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2849_10):
Originally posted by TheDirtyS54Thirty I don't really think it does. But 12k really guys? The swap alone was that much Not what its worth its what people will pay for it. I am swapping an S54 now and I put a ton of money into this car, from interior to basically new everything. I know I wont get what I put into it but thats not why I did it. Its like buying a $500k house and putting $200k of work into it. It doesnt make the house worth $700k if every comp in the area can only hold $500k. Are you selling or just want to see what its worth? Throw it on CL or BAT for what you want and see if you get bites.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2849_11):
I had an 06 350Z. I paid 15k for the car in 2010, put 10k + into brakes, suspension and misc, then 12k into a 4.0 stroker. I was lucky to get 15k out of it. You are lucky to get .50 cents on the dollar on mods/upgrades, especially if you take a car away from its original purpose.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2849_5):
I've been through this before, unfortunately the fact that it's not a race car and not a street car makes it tough to sell. I'd say you could get 12k for it, but it'll be tough to find a buyer

ANSWER 5 (id: 2849_7):
Originally posted by TheDirtyS54Thirty You guys are funny, I knew this was the wrong place to ask a question like that. I guess Berlow is asking 12k too much for his car. We could be all way off, you need to look at the market for track cars, its a limited market so you may be able to get just what you want but it probably wont happen fast unless you get lucky and someone is looking for exactly what you did. Still a nice car hope you get what you want.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2849_8):
Originally posted by TheDirtyS54Thirty You guys are funny, I knew this was the wrong place to ask a question like that. I guess Berlow is asking 12k too much for his car. Sounds like you already have an idea of what it's worth to you, knew what kind of responses you were going to get, but asked the question anyway. Originally posted by Metallated The one take video really adds value It does?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2849_9):
Originally posted by agent Sounds like you already have an idea of what it's worth to you, knew what kind of responses you were going to get, but asked the question anyway. It does? I don't really think it does. But 12k really guys? The swap alone was that much