QUESTION ID: 2436

QUESTION:
Greetings. First and foremost, happy new year to all of you. Hope you all have a better year this year! This will be my very first time turbocharging a car. I’ve owned a supercharged E46 M3 in the past, but didn’t install it myself. Anyway, onto the topic. So I’ve compiled a list of things I’m about to order next week to start the journey. I’d appreciate ALL criticisms, maybe with the exception of, “eBay turbos suck”. I know I know! I’ve chosen a setup where I can always upgrade the turbo down the line. Here’s the list so far. Let me know if I’m missing anything. This is for an M20B25 engine. Universal Intercooler Kit OBX Turbo Manifold eBay GT35 T3 Turbo VS Racing Wastegate & BOV Megasquirt MSPNP Gen 2 TRE 60lb Injectors WB AFR & Boost Gauge Turbo Heat Shield Turbo Manifold Heat Wrap Walboro 255 Fuel Pump Fast-Turbo Oil Line Kit V-Band Downpipe W/ O2 Bong Mishimoto Oil Filter Sandwich Plate Garagistic Gauge Pod DIYAutoTune MSPNP IAT Sensor Kit Now here are the questions I have regarding this setup. By the way, I will be doing most of the work myself with the help of a buddy at his shop. 1. I will be deleting the OEM AFM and replacing it with an IAT Sensor. Will the MS ECU need adjustments/tuning to accommodate? 2. I see people running two o2 sensors on their down pipes. I assume one is the original o2 sensor, and the other for the wideband. I was under the impression, I can remove the original o2 and just run the o2 for my wideband. Is this correct? 3. Is it realistic of me to think, it’s possible to tune the MS via TunerStudio by myself that will yield a “safe” tune, yet functional? 4. Any tips messing around with the tune? 5. ARP head studs were on the list, but after reading a few of the build threads on e30techarchive, I’ve seen numerous people on stock head bolts for up to 10 psi boost. I’m planning on running somewhere in the neighborhood of 8 psi. Will I be ok? Or do I absolutely HAVE to upgrade to studs off the get? If so, is it possible to replace the bolts one by one without pulling the head? 6. Is the oil filter housing sandwich plate necessary to run the oil feed line, or can I just tap into the housing and run a line that way? Sorry for the long read. As I mentioned, this will be my first time turbocharging a car. Even though I’ve read quite a bit, I’m still a bit nervous and have a million questions

ANSWER 1 (id: 2436_0):
1. Your MS doesn't use the AFM in any case and using the IAT based tables are a part of tuning. Might I add that MS is too primitive when it comes to IAT correction so watch out for heat soak. 2. I haven't seen this. It doesn't make sense to bother with installing a narrowband O2 sensor at all in a turbocharged car that is running an aftermarket ECU since the ECU can use a wideband to target a specific AFR in closed loop mode. 3. I'm not sure. I'm a self taught tuner, but I'm not you. I don't know your level of technical knowledge or experience with other engines. As a tuner I'd recommend against it. I've seen a couple impatient turbo car owners blow things up before I could get to tuning their cars. 4. Go slowly, start rich and lean out, be very conservative with ignition advance, don't base your advance table on someone else's unless you know their base timing. 5. They're on my must have list. I didn't have time to mess around with replacing a head gasket. Yes you can replace the studs one at a time in order. I did. 6. The best solution is an oil filter banjo bolt with a fitting on its hex, this feeds freshly filtered oil to your turbo. Sandwich plates feed unfiltered oil to the turbo. I do not recall if the oil pressure sender port feeds filtered or unfiltered oil.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2436_1):
Originally posted by varg 1. Your MS doesn't use the AFM in any case and using the IAT based tables are a part of tuning. Might I add that MS is too primitive when it comes to IAT correction so watch out for heat soak. 2. I haven't seen this. It doesn't make sense to bother with installing a narrowband O2 sensor at all in a turbocharged car that is running an aftermarket ECU since the ECU can use a wideband to target a specific AFR in closed loop mode. 3. I'm not sure. I'm a self taught tuner, but I'm not you. I don't know your level of technical knowledge or experience with other engines. As a tuner I'd recommend against it. I've seen a couple impatient turbo car owners blow things up before I could get to tuning their cars. 4. Go slowly, start rich and lean out, be very conservative with ignition advance, don't base your advance table on someone else's unless you know their base timing. 5. They're on my must have list. I didn't have time to mess around with replacing a head gasket. Yes you can replace the studs one at a time in order. I did. 6. The best solution is an oil filter banjo bolt with a fitting on its hex, this feeds freshly filtered oil to your turbo. Sandwich plates feed unfiltered oil to the turbo. I do not recall if the oil pressure sender port feeds filtered or unfiltered oil. Thank you for the information. The tuning part is what worries me a bit, but I should be able to hopefully figure it out. Would you be able to help remotely with the tuning? I wouldn’t mind paying!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2436_3):
So I contacted a seller on eBay that sells the OBX turbo manifold adapter. He mentioned that it’s a bottom mount, which it doesn’t seem like from the pictures. Do you guys know if the OBX is bottom or top mount?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2436_4):
Originally posted by 6th Element Thank you for the information. The tuning part is what worries me a bit, but I should be able to hopefully figure it out. Would you be able to help remotely with the tuning? I wouldn’t mind paying! I don't do remote tuning, and hardly any tuning at all these days since I'm pretty busy with work. I'm sure there is someone on r3v or the MS forums near you who would perform that function.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2436_5):
V-Band Downpipe W/ O2 Bong Things certainly have gotten easier since I played with turbos. I had to weld on my own bong, and then a backfire blew the whole load out through the front grille... Dime bag, gone in a flash. Of course, when I was doing it, B&G had JUST released V1.1... Tuning MS isn't too bad. One piece of very good advise I got was to tune the base engine first, THEN add the turbo. That way, all of the wiring mistakes, forgotten grounds, and other fuckups are out of the way. I never blew anything up, but I didn't try too hard. Carry on. Explosions are part of the process, but more usually, it just won't start. 1- doesn't MS use a Ford MAF or something similar? What are you using to meter airflow? 2- depends on what you have for a WBo2 controller. Many can talk to MS- can MS now use a WB without a standalone controller? 3- yes, carefully 4- I defer to Varg. I have always tuned my stuff, but I am conservative, and watch the WB02 like a hawk. 5- I defer to Varg. I did not use them, but I was boosting an I4, not a 6. 6- again, Varg for the win. Equally importantly, how are you getting the oil OUT of the turbo? It's critical to get the dump above the oil in the pan. For the M10, the front of the chain case is common. BTW, those are some pretty big injectors for 2/3 bar, aren't they? t Carry on. Explosions are part of the process, but more usually, it just won't start.