QUESTION ID: 41

QUESTION:
Anyone used one? Looking at a couple e30’s currently (euro touring stroker, 1JZ, S52 and S54 swaps, I know I am all over the place) and common missing element is air conditioning…. I live in Florida, if that isn’t reason enough the wife and kids are tired of sweating or having their hair blown constantly 8 months out of the year in other toys. Promised the Mrs. this one would have A/C. I have read reviews of the factory R134 conversions and many say it takes away some of the performance of the already mediocre (by today’s standards) A/C set up. AC Solutions seems like a solid option but some complain of idle issues when running. Has anyone gone with a high output alternator and a 12v electric kit? Any experiences to share?

ANSWER 1 (id: 41_0):
A bigger evaporator is probably a f---ton easier than a 3kw alternator and 2-0 wires running to the electric compressor... Power is power. Running a compressor off the belt drive is less lossy than generating electricity and then turning it back into motion to run a compressor. A well- designed system for a hot climate will probably need a bigger compressor (like from a 5er) and a larger condenser and evaporator. Then it will be able to move more heat. The A/C in the E46s can't really keep up when temperatures get above 100f. The E39s, however, do just fine, even though the cars are larger (one's a wagon) and they both have larger glass houses. I'd do it mechanically. There have to be A/C experts in your neck of the woods. t

ANSWER 2 (id: 41_1):
Thank you for the response. Talked to a couple classic car/performance shops locally and that where the electric idea surfaced. The shop that deals with more performance stuff warned about running factory style compressor on something like the S54 swap as a cut out switch may be required to protect the compressor during “spirited driving”. The owner/seller of the 1jz mentioned he did the delete as there wasn’t room for the compressor in the engine bay….. Still learning here and again appreciate the reply. Assuming by your E39 comment that this system could be installed in the e30? Haven’t searched that option?

ANSWER 3 (id: 41_2):
I was thinking more along the lines of using 5er parts in general, since they are certainly bigger. But yeah... Problem of course being that you're now building a very custom car. But this is kinda what happens with swaps, and especially when 'modern' starts to factor into it. I've run into similar problems... and run away screaming. Hot rod shops are the place to go for ideas, if not solutions- they know what's out there for decent quality parts, and how to make them work. t

ANSWER 4 (id: 41_3):
Originally posted by TobyB I was thinking more along the lines of using 5er parts in general, since they are certainly bigger. But yeah... Problem of course being that you're now building a very custom car. But this is kinda what happens with swaps, and especially when 'modern' starts to factor into it. I've run into similar problems... and run away screaming. Hot rod shops are the place to go for ideas, if not solutions- they know what's out there for decent quality parts, and how to make them work. t Funny you mention hot rod shop. One of the highly recommended shops local to me said; we can put AC in anything but… with an E30, if we are not simply replacing/converting a stock system and budget is a concern you might just want to look for something that has/had it already installed. Lol. On goes the search