QUESTION ID: 3486

QUESTION:
not counting r3v ... as a member's opinion, what are the top three e30 forums nowadays for knowledge & temperament ranked in order ?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3486_10):
Speaking of the r3v FB page, I got banned a long time ago and I have yet to know why. I still never got added back, but it doesnt sound like I'm missing much...

ANSWER 2 (id: 3486_11):
That's too bad about e30tech. I wish someone would talk to the admin and get him to re-think the forum policies to allow new users and combat the spam bots. That forum is full of useful info and ppl would use it if was alive!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3486_2):
It used to be r3v, e30tech, and bimmerforums. But Chris (owner) decided to kill e30tech and now it's a ghostland. Still has useful information there though. So now (imo) it's 1. r3v 2. bimmerforums 3. s14.net

ANSWER 4 (id: 3486_4):
what did chris do to e30 tech to "kill it" there are a few people on there that use it but I mean probably a handfull. But those handfull seem to be the last standing knowledgeable members.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3486_5):
Originally posted by Reichart12 R3V's Facebook page. No need for anything else really. This comment made me want to die a tiny bit inside. There is so much misinformation there it's laughable. It's a quick way to get an answer, if you don't care if the answer is correct or not. Chances are the solution to your problem has already been talked about 10 times on this forum, so a 5-10 min search is all you need to do. I get why r3v facebook is so easy/popular, but at least half the answers are wrong. Originally posted by bangn what did chris do to e30 tech to "kill it" I don't think he set out to "kill" anything, but not letting new members register (or making them jump trough hoops to sign up) didn't help matters. There some better tech info there - for ECU tuning, and turbos.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3486_6):
Originally posted by george graves There is so much misinformation there it's laughable. Just the other day someone asked if auto and manual driveshafts where the same on the ix. Everyone said they were different, but just a 5 minute realoem search will tell you other wise. People just don't bother to search anymore...

ANSWER 7 (id: 3486_8):
Originally posted by george graves I don't think he set out to "kill" anything, but not letting new members register (or making them jump trough hoops to sign up) didn't help matters. There some better tech info there - for ECU tuning, and turbos. tend to agree there.. took a year for me to be approved.