QUESTION ID: 3100

QUESTION:
I see a common theme on forums. Mainly car enthusiasts forums. If a Person posts a question or starts a thread about something that has been answered at some point; that person is subsequently called out for not using the search or not doing something other than ask the questions. I am curious why people respond this way? I'm asking because I do a lot of reading and research on forums, and see this all the time. I curious about what people's justifications are for responding to someone's question that way. Sent from my XT1096 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3100_1):
People want to see forums fail, that is why. In their mind once it is asked once it shouldn't be asked again. Truth be told without people asking questions a forum is just a social hang out.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3100_10):
This Problem is all too Common I think this whole dilemma could be solved via slight revisions to systems already in place: 1. Sticky both general and generally misunderstood concepts at the tops of each corresponding sub-forum with diligence. (maybe leave sticky-ing posts up to a poll instead of moderators) 2. Encourage inexperienced members to search before posting in other means that don't lead to dead end threads that are a waste of bandwidth. (perhaps through persuasive reasoning or repercussions such as a noob-o-meter) 3. Suggest to the seasoned R3vlimited community to cogitate the didactic motto "if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all" but in the light of "if you don't have anything useful to say, don't say anything at all." (perhaps through persuasive reasoning or a reward system such as gold stars) If a question that has previously been answered several times comes up: -Maybe the asker is trying but just doesn't know the proper search terms to use because they're simply inexperienced. Respond with search terms or a link to the answer if so inclined. -If they're obviously just lazy and want to be spoon fed, you shouldn't have to put in more effort than them for their project. Increase Efficiency I think that an effort made in this direction could reduce the amount of dead end threads one frequently comes across while actually using the search feature. Make the Seasoned Less Salty Potentially, this maturation may even downplay the arrogant, clique-like, aryan race mentality some associate with R3vlimited. Help the Noobs become Productive If it wasn't for noobs, old pros might not have thought to use E46 control arms or RX-7 brakes. The main goal should be to make broader and deeper information available for the prosperity of all E30 enthusiasts' alike.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3100_11):
what really annoys me is when i spend 15 or 20 minutes answering a question and then a couple days later someone asks the same fucking thing. for me, the worst is when every fucking noob on r3v asks some stupid question about shipping. this forum has been around for over ten years. how the fuck do you possibly think every aspect of this hasn't been covered yet?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3100_12):
Originally posted by Self Made I think this whole dilemma could be solved via slight revisions to systems already in place: 1. Sticky both general and generally misunderstood concepts at the tops of each corresponding sub-forum with diligence. (maybe leave sticky-ing posts up to a poll instead of moderators) 2. Encourage inexperienced members to search before posting in other means that don't lead to dead end forums that are a waste bandwidth. (perhaps through persuasive reasoning or repercussions such as a noob-o-meter) 3. Suggest to the seasoned R3vlimited community to cogitate the didactic motto "if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all" but in the light of "if you don't have anything useful to say, don't say anything at all." (perhaps through persuasive reasoning or a reward system such as gold stars) If a question that has previously been answered several times comes up: -Maybe the asker is trying but just doesn't know the proper search terms to use because they're simply inexperienced. Respond with search terms or a link to the answer if so inclined. -If they're obviously just lazy and want to be spoon fed, you shouldn't have to put in more effort than them for their project. Increase Efficiency I think that an effort made in this direction could reduce the amount of dead end threads one frequently comes across while actually using the search feature. Make the Seasoned Less Salty Potentially, this maturation may even downplay the arrogant, clique-like, aryan race mentality some associate with R3vlimited. Help the Noobs become Productive If it wasn't for noobs, old pros might not have thought to use E46 control arms or RX-7 brakes. The main goal should be to make broader and deeper information available for the prosperity of all E30 enthusiasts' alike. Quoting this for science.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3100_2):
It all depends on the question. If it's something that has been covered 1000x. Then I can see someone telling the person to search. If someone did search and couldn't find what they where looking for, then post up. Then you have the lazy and ones wanted spoon fed. Think most of those people are on Facebook...

ANSWER 6 (id: 3100_4):
There's a reason www.lmgtfy.com is a thing. It's because people are lazy and want everything given to them. We're not your personal research assistants. But if you already searched and didn't find an answer, by all means post your question.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3100_5):
It does get old, but some people show their lack of effort too well. Personally, I think R3V has gotten pretty docile these days. If someone posts an intelligent question, especially from a new perspective, it's always a good thing. Keeps the forum moving, keeps the audience involved. If some dumbshit asks about stupid crap we've covered 80 times, fuck'em, they deserve what they get. That too keeps the audience involved.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3100_6):
I don't have an opinion on noobs posting repeated topics, but here is what I have noticed over the past years on different forums: Members don't like rehashing a subject that was discussed just last week, last month, or a even last year if nothing new is brought to the table. They like to be thorough in technical discussions. This is an enthusiast forum, so chances are good that your question was answered if your topic has been brought up before.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3100_7):
What is really shitty is when you do go to search for something, you always come across a plethora of "search noob" responses to threads, making actually finding an answer a bit more difficult.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3100_8):
Basic questions that get asked all the time end up burying more interesting and more in-depth topics. It's kind of like graduating kindergarten, there are some basic things you should learn before moving on to grade school. If you don't learn the basics first you end up holding the rest of the class back. Look at some of the Honda forums. Young kids who don't understand car basics holding everyone else back and giving the forum a bad "uneducated" rap.