QUESTION ID: 3382

QUESTION:
Ive got a 1988 325 with the 2.7L super eta engine (comes with the 325i cylinder head). I knew nothing about this engine when I bought the car, I assumed it was a normal 325i engine like all the others. The car is great but feels a bit slow to me after being spoiled with a 300HP V6. Without machining any parts myself and without breaking the bank, what mods could I do to get more power out of this engine? I'd like to break 200HP if possible, at least 220 would be ideal. Ive read that performance chips (such as the tuner motorsport Jim Conforti) can be installed to get an easy 20HP on 93 octane. Would this work on the stock seta internals? Bleh. I dont know, Ive read too much on this and found conflicting opinions for nearly every mod, what are your guys thoughts? This'll also be my first "built" engine, as Ive previously kept my vehicles stock, save for maybe an exhaust and CAI.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3382_0):
You will not break 200whp without going with a proper (forged pistons, hot cam, etc.) stroker build. You have the option of swapping in an s52 (don't bother with an m5x) or an M30. Then, there's always the turbo route. However, each of the proposed options require a fair chunk of change and mechanical know-how. If you want a FAST car with little work, perhaps a different car would fit the bill better. Don't mean to be obtuse, but perhaps that is the reality in this case. ----------------------------- Edit: I forgot to say welcome to r3v! There is a lot of information (both good and bad) here, so take some time to enjoy the car and simply fix whats broken before forming any game plan. The e30 is a very rewarding chassis, but you will need to up your wrench game if you want to succeed. Here's a great introduction to e30's that can help to form a good knowledge base.... https://www.amazon.com/BMW-E30-Perfo.../dp/1934709867

ANSWER 2 (id: 3382_1):
What he said. These car's weren't designed to be HP monsters, they were designed to be a balance between decent power, and competent handling. If you just want to live your life a 1/4 mile at a time, you'll have to open up the wallet. If you just want to learn to drive fast, spend a little to get some soft DOT tires and hit a track day bro. Then you'll understand what these cars are better at..

ANSWER 3 (id: 3382_11):
Originally posted by threadediron I also wouldnt be opposed to just saving my money for 6 months and taking some out of savings to just drop the ~3 grand I assume an engine swap would cost. Just do this. If you're worrying about how much something will cost, then you can't afford it. Appreciate what you have for now, and use your time to research what your options are, make a plan, and be patient. I did a bunch of autox events and a HPDE with my stock eta, so it's not like you need 200hp to have fun.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3382_12):
If you are just wanting a little more seat of the pants pull, swap your diff ratio. Chances are, you have some highway cruising gears that are great for mpg and not buzzing the motor at 55, but around town feel like mud. Go find something a little steeper (if you look around you can find a posi for a couple hundred or some one giving away an open for near beer money) and I am sure you'll be a little more impressed. Of course, the trade off will be less gas mileage and a higher cruising rpm on the freeway, but it'll change the feel of the cars power band. Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3382_13):
Originally posted by djjerme If you are just wanting a little more seat of the pants pull, swap your diff ratio. Chances are, you have some highway cruising gears that are great for mpg and not buzzing the motor at 55, but around town feel like mud. Go find something a little steeper (if you look around you can find a posi for a couple hundred or some one giving away an open for near beer money) and I am sure you'll be a little more impressed. Of course, the trade off will be less gas mileage and a higher cruising rpm on the freeway, but it'll change the feel of the cars power band. Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk Are diffs for these cars basically plug n play? Ive been thinking about swapping in an LSD... Its not a bad idea considering it will give me that "seat of the pants pull" as you so eloquently said hahaha

ANSWER 6 (id: 3382_2):
not going to get 200-220hp without spending some money and opening things up. The shortcut way would be to swap to a newer motor, such as an M52 or an M54. M54B30 makes 225hp bone stock, and also weighs less than an M20.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3382_3):
I appreciate the replies, gents. So what Ive gathered is that breaking 200HP out of this engine is not something easily done, however I would still like to tune this engine and squeeze what I can out of it. Im not looking to have a beast of a car that spins tires all the way through 5th gear, Id just like to be able to drop a gear and floor it and actually go somewhere, LOL. And dont get me wrong, I understand these older BMWs are meant to be a car that has damn near perfect road handling, and believe you me I definitely appreciate the driving experience. Does anyone have a good recipe for this engine to get what I can out of it? Either way, thank you for piping in.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3382_4):
-MAF conversion (miller/m30) -Chip (miller, dysilva, squid) -Cam (IE, BH, Schrick) -Headers (IE) When used in conjunction that'll increase your throttle response and add a healthy bit of power.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3382_5):
^This, if you want to keep M20 B27 motor. Although a swap to an S5X or M30 shouldn't be ruled out. But I don't know your budget OP. But you can enjoy the e. It's really good when merging onto the expressway in 3rd and going directly to 5th.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3382_6):
Originally posted by THMotorsports ^This, if you want to keep M20 B27 motor. Although a swap to an S5X or M30 shouldn't be ruled out. But I don't know your budget OP. But you can enjoy the e. It's really good when merging onto the expressway in 3rd and going directly to 5th. How much do engine swaps typically cost (if done at a shop)? Im a college student with limited funding, I get maybe 600 a month from my part time job, so I wouldnt mind slowly buying parts and building the engine piece by piece. I also wouldnt be opposed to just saving my money for 6 months and taking some out of savings to just drop the ~3 grand I assume an engine swap would cost. The only thing thats really important to me is keeping the car looking stock, and making sure it stays reliable. I understand theres the "fast, reliable, cheap - pick two" thing, and Id like to keep my car in the "fast and reliable" part, and fork out the extra money, as opposed to making my car fast cheaply and having to repair it every two weeks.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3382_7):
Swaps never cost what is originally budgeted unless the budget is unlimited. When i started my m30 swap i though id spend 2k max since i got a hell of a deal on the motor. Well about 4k later and I'm finally to the point i should be able to drive it. I also did this work by my self. Im not trying to discourage you from doing a swap cause its the best option besides turboing your car. 2.7i motors are great motors for boost. 3k can get you a swap easily and maybe even find a drop in one being sold by someone here on forums but i don't think any shop will get it done for 3k. The going labor rate in a shop is around 100 an hour. So that means for 3k it would have to be done in 30 hours and have zero cost in parts.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3382_8):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Swaps never cost what is originally budgeted unless the budget is unlimited. When i started my m30 swap i though id spend 2k max since i got a hell of a deal on the motor. Well about 4k later and I'm finally to the point i should be able to drive it. I also did this work by my self. Im not trying to discourage you from doing a swap cause its the best option besides turboing your car. 2.7i motors are great motors for boost. 3k can get you a swap easily and maybe even find a drop in one being sold by someone here on forums but i don't think any shop will get it done for 3k. The going labor rate in a shop is around 100 an hour. So that means for 3k it would have to be done in 30 hours and have zero cost in parts. I realize engine swap costs greatly vary, but does anyone have a ballpark quote for getting it done at a shop? I know its looked down upon to have your engine swapped at a shop, but I dont have the time, know how, or any of the equipment necessary for doing a swap by myself. Also, suppose I was to turbo the engine instead, would I also need to rebuild the engine with performance parts in order for the engine to handle the boost, or if I ran the turbo at a low PSI would that not be necessary?

ANSWER 13 (id: 3382_9):
Originally posted by threadediron I realize engine swap costs greatly vary, but does anyone have a ballpark quote for getting it done at a shop? I know its looked down upon to have your engine swapped at a shop, but I dont have the time, know how, or any of the equipment necessary for doing a swap by myself. Also, suppose I was to turbo the engine instead, would I also need to rebuild the engine with performance parts in order for the engine to handle the boost, or if I ran the turbo at a low PSI would that not be necessary? To turbo an m20 as long as its a mechanically sound motor to start with. You can just slap the turbo kit on and run low psi like under 10 i believe. But you will need a gates timing belt. Thats a must on any m20 really. Other wise. Im currently building a turbo m20 I'm using stock parts except arp head studs and gates timing belt.