QUESTION ID: 2387

QUESTION:
my 87 325is is getting to a critical point with rust and other bodywork—rust around the windshield starting to pinhole, front strut towers, surface rust in various other places. I've had the car for 15 years as my DD and would like to keep it for another 15 (though it may eventually become a non-DD). Also thinking about getting a rebuilt m20 and getrag—both are fine for the moment, with about 170k on them, but both trans and engine are leaking and the idea of getting a restored, stock+ performance is appealing to me as well. Something like Metric Mechanic 2.9 "sport" rebuild is what I have in mind. Does anyone have suggestions for shops near NYC? Either places that will do the bodywork AND engine/trans, or indiv recs for each? Have looked into Metric Mechanic and Korman for the engine and trans. VAC Motorsports in Philly looks like it could do both, and Philly would be pretty convenient for me. Could I do all of this for 20k?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2387_0):
If you have the $$$ then rock on. It is a great car and can carry you as far as you want if you want to spend the money. Rust is a big deal on the structure, both front and back. But seriously, the money will be real. Balance it vs. equivalent options. Most forum people have cars that are rust free and deal with 30 year old parts that just plain wear out. If you can deal with the standard “my subframe bushings are gone” and “I need new body work”, do it and enjoy life.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2387_1):
Originally posted by jdusty4 my 87 325is is getting to a critical point with rust and other bodywork—rust around the windshield starting to pinhole, front strut towers, surface rust in various other places. I've had the car for 15 years as my DD and would like to keep it for another 15 (though it may eventually become a non-DD). Also thinking about getting a rebuilt m20 and getrag—both are fine for the moment, with about 170k on them, but both trans and engine are leaking and the idea of getting a restored, stock+ performance is appealing to me as well. Something like Metric Mechanic 2.9 "sport" rebuild is what I have in mind. Does anyone have suggestions for shops near NYC? Either places that will do the bodywork AND engine/trans, or indiv recs for each? Have looked into Metric Mechanic and Korman for the engine and trans. VAC Motorsports in Philly looks like it could do both, and Philly would be pretty convenient for me. Could I do all of this for 20k? Try Typspeed in Jackson, NJ. They rebuild/restore classic BMWs. IIRC they quoted me around $15-25k for a dailyable rebuild and $50-60k for a full-blown restoration on my 86 Eta. I would either double your budget with all of the stuff you plan to do or maybe cut some nonessential items if you want to limit the total cost to 20k.