QUESTION ID: 2197

QUESTION:
I want to see what people are using for e30 Cup holders, favorite designs and ones that are still available online preferably. I have a 3D printer and found a few 3d models of center console cup holders and wasn't really happy with any of them. Decided to plan out one that better matched the e30 interior. Let me know your thoughts on shape. I'll upload a picture installed once printed. https://cults3d.com/en/3d-model/vari...e30-cup-holder - Here is the 3d file if you are interested in printing one for yourself. I don't just want to see 3D printed ones, though I want to see what the best looking quality ones are.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2197_0):
yer its all about holding the coffee and steering wheel in one hand, and changing gears with the other. Then cleaning the coffee off the steering wheel after reaching your destination. In saying that i quite like that new design in the first post. but i didn't realise I had to pay to get the STL...

ANSWER 2 (id: 2197_1):
Now that is interesting! did you just replace the entire section around the hand brake? and its a similar width to the e30 one at that join behind the gearstick?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2197_2):
The cup holder/handbrake/armrest section is from the e46 (supports cut/modified front and back). The e30 console was cut and widen to match the e46 and added a section piece to match the curve on the e46 end

ANSWER 4 (id: 2197_3):
A guy used to sell these custom cupholder consoles on here a while ago. There's a good DIY somewhere on how to make em. Up close you can tell the texture is a little off, but I think they look good overall.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2197_5):
Originally posted by WestCoastEta A guy used to sell these custom cupholder consoles on here a while ago. There's a good DIY somewhere on how to make em. Up close you can tell the texture is a little off, but I think they look good overall. Ive got the same one except it has the Cigarette lighter outlet with USB charge port! Stephen was the person that made them.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2197_6):
Just make one to replace the map pocket, or use the factory fit cupholder, which is to say the space between the center console and the inner seat bolster.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2197_7):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Just make one to replace the map pocket, or use the factory fit cupholder, which is to say the space between the center console and the inner seat bolster. I shove drinks in between the passenger seat and console all the time

ANSWER 8 (id: 2197_8):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Pardon Our Interruption... https://www.ebay.com/itm/265386638077 Saw this one the other day This one is an interesting design! Out of the way at least. Looks pretty good.