QUESTION ID: 3549

QUESTION:
There are a few good parts suppliers for E30s around. For many years I've favored Bavarian Autosport, not because they're necessarily any better than any of the others, but because I live close enough that I would always get my E30 parts the next day, even with cheap ground shipping. It was really nice to get parts so quickly, and they were always helpful and knowledgeable the times I phoned. But within the past year or two, I've noticed that they no longer carry a lot of E30 parts in stock any more. More often than not, when I place an order, I've found I need to wait days or even weeks for them to show up. :( I guess it's not surprising, given that our cars are now 25-30 years old, and stores need to make room for newer stock with greater turnover. But still... My latest adventure is waiting for a new throttle position sensor to arrive. I have no idea how long it's going to be. Are there vendors that still carry a more-or-less complete inventory of E30 parts in stock? Pelican? Others? Otherwise I guess we're just resigned to the trials and tribulations of driving around in antique cars.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3549_0):
I never use bavauto anymore. I've had a lot of bad experiences with them recently and now stay away. I used to use Pelican, but they're stuff takes a while to get to me. I typically use ECS because I usually make "wish lists" on future projects like power steering, brake, suspension, ect. I try to use Blunt Tech more and more now, he's good for the community so its good to support him. Same thing can be said for Guten Parts. Both are good guys and I know a lot of people on the r3v use them too.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3549_1):
I wont buy any other place than Guten parts and service. parts ship from 3 different warehouses across the US. So shipping is always fast, prices are competitive, and customer service is second to none. Levent is always willing to help from the smallest part to the largest. If he doesn't have the item I can almost bet he knows someone who does.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3549_10):
there are a shitload of threads like this one already. that said, blunt is a badass. bmwmercedespars.com is probably the cheapest. the online service kinda sucks, but you can call husker bmw to get the same price with first class service. sometimes it takes a while to get the parts. a couple years ago, they sold me an mtech 2 valance for 320.00.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3549_11):
Originally posted by george graves Another vote for Blunttech. I use to be so gun shy about ordering parts - I'd wait till I needed a big order to save money on shipping - even putting off little things like air filters and such. Most of the big "BMW" online shops, the shipping would be like $30 for $10-$50 bucks of parts, with UPS ground 5 days (urrr) - that would always blow. Blunttech, like others, use many warehouses to ship their parts from, but it seems like the volume that blunt is doing affords him special consideration. I once orders parts from his site, and it was shipped from three different locations - all for one low price. He seems to have the best back end on his web site that can coordinate shipping from multiple locations, rather then it being shipped to one location, and re-packaged and then shipped to the customer - and that's key apperently. I'm not sure how he does it - he's invest a lot of money in the infrastructure. Or maybe he looses money on some orders. I'd love to pick his brain on his business practices for sure. (Full disclosure, Blunt gives me a HJ on my birthday each year - so take what I say with a gain of salt) Thanks George. I wish I had the same budget to throw at web development ECS has. Ours is improving but its slow going. Its far from perfect but we have a full time photographer on staff and are loading pics as fast as we can. We have the full BMW catalog searchable by part number but people understandably want to see a picture of what they are buying and we are trying to accomplish that as quickly as possible

ANSWER 5 (id: 3549_2):
Bavauto usually puts my parts on backorder but when I call up and complain they suddenly can drop ship them same day I usually go with fcpeuro but recently bought from autohausaz. I've bought from pelican and ECS in the past and they're okay.. just FCP is closer

ANSWER 6 (id: 3549_3):
Another vote for Blunttech. I use to be so gun shy about ordering parts - I'd wait till I needed a big order to save money on shipping - even putting off little things like air filters and such. Most of the big "BMW" online shops, the shipping would be like $30 for $10-$50 bucks of parts, with UPS ground 5 days (urrr) - that would always blow. Blunttech, like others, use many warehouses to ship their parts from, but it seems like the volume that blunt is doing affords him special consideration. I once orders parts from his site, and it was shipped from three different locations - all for one low price. He seems to have the best back end on his web site that can coordinate shipping from multiple locations, rather then it being shipped to one location, and re-packaged and then shipped to the customer - and that's key apperently. I'm not sure how he does it - he's invest a lot of money in the infrastructure. Or maybe he looses money on some orders. I'd love to pick his brain on his business practices for sure. (Full disclosure, Blunt gives me a HJ on my birthday each year - so take what I say with a gain of salt)

ANSWER 7 (id: 3549_4):
I used to get parts from ECS, but their customer service is poor at best, and their shipping prices are ridiculous (I'm up in Canada). Everyone was raving about blunt so I decided to give it a shot. Between their prices and service, i'm not looking back. Blunt and his crew have gone above and beyond what I would expect just to keep a happy customer and i'll always get my stuff from them from now on! Another vote for Blunt!

ANSWER 8 (id: 3549_5):
I'm north of the border, and I've been using a place called Germanparts.ca... and they have been pretty awesome. Most stuff I need they can get and they now do online orders as well. If I order to pick up, they generally have the stuff within a day or two.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3549_8):
Originally posted by Cayoncrusier93 Is it just me or is Gutenparts website not working? It's not just you -- it's down. Thanks for all the replies. I'll plan to give Blunt a try next time I need parts. I have a feeling I'll miss my cheap next-day delivery, but since I can't really count on that any more from Bav Auto anyway, I can't complain.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3549_9):
Guten parts, I have spent Thousands their, last few weeks. Levent has been readily available. Offered me advice, to help my business, chatted about his, and we have shared ideas, about new stuff, designs, all sorts of stuff. I refer my customers to him. He has also been nice enough to send a few freebies now and again, and help with questions my customers have. As a last resort ECS, simply because their picture database, Only if Guten has burned down thoigh, and their not open.