QUESTION ID: 2456

QUESTION:
Other than the M3 shell for $20k on here, I couldn't find a good point of reference for the value of a shell. I found a project '90 325is (confirmed through VIN decoder it has all the options for an is) locally that seems like a decent deal for where the e30 market has gone. I hate going against the advice of 'never buy someone else's project,' but at this point it seems like the only way I can reasonably get into a clean car. Car was disassemble two years ago to be repainted and is currently a roller, but it would come the engine and trans (which have allegedly been resealed), crack-free dash installed and everything else, just needs to be reassembled. I'm not sure how to value a project like this, but getting the value of the shell would be a good starting point. I haven't been able to see it in person yet, but paint job looks good in photos and it was a clean Western shell to start with. Thanks in advance for any input.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2456_0):
So, if it's been painted it's all about the quality of the work, and you'll need a look at it in person to assess that properly. You can also assess rust. Personally, I'd want to pay no more than 3k if the paint is of decent quality, and the shell is solid, but I'd bet the seller wants 5 to recoup costs.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2456_1):
I agree, I'll be able to judge the condition a lot better once I get to see it in person, should be checking it out this weekend. You're right, he's definitely trying to recoup some cost and wants $7k for everything (not just the shell). Hagerty values a '90 325is in 'good' condition at $13,200 and BAT auctions seem to land somewhere between $12k and $18k for nice cars. Based on that, I thought if I could talk him down some, I could end up with a pretty good deal in the end, but maybe I'm as off base as he it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2456_10):
Originally posted by Vincenze Do you know that you can ship a car on a trailer from California for $1,000? https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/cta?query=e30 https://losangeles.craigslist.org/search/cta?query=e30 In fact, you can look everywhere in the USA and ship it from there. If that's the quality of e30s out in California right now then I'd say the car in question is a decent buy...

ANSWER 4 (id: 2456_11):
Originally posted by E30 Wagen If that's the quality of e30s out in California right now then I'd say the car in question is a decent buy... A good car doesn't stay on Craigslist long. It's even cheaper to ship from a neighbor state.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2456_12):
Originally posted by E30 Wagen Looking at the pics I can see that little to no effort was put into masking before paint, especially in the engine bay... I hadn't noticed when I was looking on my phone, but looking on my laptop I see what you're saying. It looks like they taped off one wiper post, but not the other and there is definitely some overspray on some of the parts in the engine bay.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2456_13):
Originally posted by Vincenze Do you know that you can ship a car on a trailer from California for $1,000? I'm not opposed to getting a car from another state, and have pretty much assumed that I will have to, but- as you mentioned- that's going to add $500-1000 in shipping and I won't get to see it in person. The way the market has gotten for these cars, unless it is obviously a turd, everyone thinks they have a $10k car; it's difficult to judge if it actually is or not when you can 't crawl around it yourself.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2456_2):
7 for a disassembled project is going to find no buyers IMO. Folks that are willing the pay BAT prices generally want to do no work at all, and they complain vociferously in any other case. As to value for you, budget for new suspension, brakes, lots of weatherstripping ($$$), engine seals/consumables and your time. Likely when complete you will have invested another 5k on top of whatever you spent to buy the car.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2456_3):
Thanks for the input! I don't mind doing the work to be able able to afford something I otherwise wouldn't be able to, but it does sound like I'd need to be able talk him down more to make it worth while. Things I know that it needs are shocks/struts, brakes and new seats/covers (which have gotten very expensive). I imagine it will also need to have the fuel and cooling system addressed since it's being sitting a couple years. The engine and trans are out and have been resealed and a new clutch and flywheel have been installed. I didn't realize how much weather stripping was so I'm glad you pointed that out. $5k seems like a realistic budget to get it back on the road. He didn't seem like he was going to be very flexible on price, but it might be a reality check if he can't find a buyer after a while, and maybe I can eventually get it for a decent price. Thanks again for all the input, I really appreciate it.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2456_5):
Living in the Midwest, clean cars are just about non-existent. Whenever one does pop up locally, I want to buy it immediately, but it's good to be able to step back and get a reality check.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2456_6):
Heh, I know what car you're talking about, saw it on CL recently but now it's gone? Looked like a nice project and honestly a pretty fair price for a rust free late model with new paint and complete drivetrain ready to drop in. I'm one of the few people in this part of the country who still posts here, I'm no expert but have owned and worked on several e30s, feel free to reach out anytime.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2456_7):
Being that we're both in West Michigan, I imagine you're thinking of the same car, it is still on CL. Do you know anything about the car other than what you saw in the ad? I am going to look at it this weekend and would strongly consider it if I could talk him down a little, but that doesn't seem likely at this point based on our phone conversations. He seems like a nice guy and I'm sure he has a lot more into it than he's asking, but there's too many unknowns for me and it still needs too many things for me to pay his asking price.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2456_8):
Do you know that you can ship a car on a trailer from California for $1,000? https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/cta?query=e30 https://losangeles.craigslist.org/search/cta?query=e30 In fact, you can look everywhere in the USA and ship it from there.

ANSWER 13 (id: 2456_9):
Just found the ad again. I don't recognize the car so I don't know anything about it. Looking at the pics I can see that little to no effort was put into masking before paint, especially in the engine bay... I'd be interested to know if the dash is a new unit from BMW or a used replacement. The new dashes are very nice, now nla, and were very expensive. Hard to say what it's worth without knowing more about the state of the drivetrain. It being rust free is huge as you know, shame the paint work looks a bit loose.