QUESTION ID: 3515

QUESTION:
So here is a crazy and scary story. Last Wednesday May 4 2016 my friends and I were hanging out after school, all met up at my house with our cars to take pics and cruise out. My e30, friends 5.0 foxbody, e36 328is, ford ranger, and e39 540i. I left my e30 behind as it is leaking coolant and my friend with the foxbody left minutes before the incident. So we go to our regular backroad to cruise and just take pics with our cars like usual. We pull off on the side of the road to take pictures of my friends e39 as he was getting ready to put her for sale. On the side a lady in a subaru is coming down a dirt road and opens a gate to get on the main road and as she is opening the gate a man in a white truck pulls up behind us. We thought he knew the woman or was a ranch owner and was going to ask us to leave or something, 5 minutes later after the lady had gone the man gets out of the truck with a shotgun and points to my friends 540 and demands the keys. We give him the car and he drives onto the freeway exit ramp romping the car. We called 911 and all that then later with the police saw the man got in a shootout with the police. At home saw on the news my friends 540i into a pole with bullet holes. http://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-...after-shooting Lucky to be alive, if anybody ever demands your guys keys just give them its never worth a risk. Somebody also did start a go fund me but idk if I am allowed to post the link, but be safe out there people.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3515_1):
I'm kind of surprised the guy surrendered. I thought it was going to be suicide by cop. Anyways insurance should cover the whole thing like Kershaw said.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3515_12):
Originally posted by Matt-B If someone points a gun at me, they will be getting shot Sucks about the car If someone points a gun at you and you believe they intend to use it (which is why they have it) then you have almost no recourse but to comply. Granted, compliance is no assurance of safety. Just don't go spouting off with stuff like this, it just makes you sound unreasonable. While guns are useful to have they do not help when someone has theirs out and ready first. Ultimately, it's just stuff, which is fairly easy to replace.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3515_5):
I don't think he had full coverage, so we don't know how much insurance is going to cover, I guess that's why his aunts best friend started the gofundme :/ and before he came to us in the stolen truck earlier in the morning he had shot at a McDonalds that his girlfriend had worked at or something, then he ended up hiding at where we usually cruise out at. And here's a pic of what the car looked like before it got in a pole and shootout. Attached Files

ANSWER 4 (id: 3515_7):
A lot of places have victims of crime funds so it's worth asking around and yes,myou can bring a civil,suit against the d*bag but I think inmates are judgement proof...plus hard to collect from a guy making 17c/HR Glad everyone is ok

ANSWER 5 (id: 3515_8):
I doubt, the guy who jacked us stole the truck and probably even the gun he had. Doubt he had anything left especially any $. But my friend is waiting on insurance to check the car out after the police are done searching the cars.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3515_9):
They can try, but if the guy doesn't have anything of value they won't get shit. My neighbor's two sons were recently murdered and she is going through similar right now, they are trying to determine what assets the guy has and if there is anything she is getting it. I think the gofundme is fair, even if he is insured it will cover what the insurance company inevitably fucks him out of. This is the type of thing that makes one think. I'm not a guy with much to really lose, and don't figure that many would actually have the stones to pull the trigger, so my initial reaction would be "Fuck you what's mine is mine." Not that I would let it change my stance, but its a reminder to how close to lights out we all can be at any given point.