QUESTION ID: 1394

QUESTION:
I have a 91 325i that was converted to a manual top by the PO. Id like to add the struts to help with keeping the top cover open but noticed that I only have the mounts on the hinges. Is there an additional bracket needed for the lower mount? How does one install these struts on a newer model?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1394_0):
You will need to weld a pin to the hinge bracket. Manual cars had two tonneau lid struts Look for some pics in the last few pages of my very build thread.. you’ll see some that show the struts

ANSWER 2 (id: 1394_3):
Originally posted by bradnic You will need to weld a pin to the hinge bracket. Manual cars had two tonneau lid struts Look for some pics in the last few pages of my very build thread.. you’ll see some that show the struts I bought the lower brackets new, but I didn't know that the hinges for the automatic top tonneau lid do not have the pin to attach the top side of the strut (never checked).

ANSWER 3 (id: 1394_4):
Originally posted by robrez https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/sho...hinge+brackets pics and part numbers in this thread Great thread Rob thx for pointing it out Seems like you could find or have machined a threaded pin that could be added to the electric top cover without welding. It wouldn’t be cheap though, and to go to that trouble you might as well tack weld it in place I’ll take a look at my replacement electric tonneau cover when I get a chance

ANSWER 4 (id: 1394_6):
Originally posted by robrez I bought the lower brackets new, but I didn't know that the hinges for the automatic top tonneau lid do not have the pin to attach the top side of the strut (never checked). Mine does have the upper pins. It's a 7/91 production cabrio that originally came with the auto (EM) top. Cory

ANSWER 5 (id: 1394_7):
Originally posted by cory58 Mine does have the upper pins. It's a 7/91 production cabrio that originally came with the auto (EM) top. Cory Thanks, honestly it never occurred for me to check when I was collecting parts for my swap. I have my vert under a car cover now (too darn hot to drive) so I haven't been able to check. Hopefully, my latches have the upper pins. If not, I might just have to buy a cover with hinges, so I'll have an excuse to remove the vinyl and color match the paint. Edit, It looks like the hinges are welded on the car-side ugh!

ANSWER 6 (id: 1394_8):
Yes the top lid hinges are part of the car body, not the lid. The top lid struts are attached to pins on the center facing side of each hinge. I know the face lifted 318i verts had manual tops.. so they probably have the strut pins - at least on one of the hinges. I’ll post up pics of the hinges and pins for both electric and manual top cars when I get a chance.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1394_9):
Originally posted by bradnic I’ll post up pics of the hinges and pins for both electric and manual top cars when I get a chance. The thread @robrez posted already has great pics of the upper and lower hinge pins. The 3 electric top cars I’ve seen in detail have the upper pins. That doesn’t mean they all do of course.