QUESTION ID: 1222

QUESTION:
Figured id make this thread since a search didnt turn up anything significant. Ive decided to stick with the Cabrio, Thus i need to increase the handling around corners and overall stiffness. My car is pretty much stock besides the springs and shocks. Id like to be able to compare different sways,bushings, etc that have worked effectivly in a cabrio Since our cars have been named "Flexyfliers" Theres not much you can do to get away from that name because its true. However, Id like to compile suspension setups of various cabrios including the type of engine you have. That way there will be a decent reference of suspension setups and overall satisfaction. Ultimately making it easier for me and others to pick out suspension setups according to described/desired ride My Car: 1990 325IC M50B25 BavAuto Springs Bilstein Sport Shocks Stock CABs Stock RSM's Stock Sways Stock Rear subframe bushings Currently no strut brace besides factory bracing. *pretty smooth ride, But tends to push through the turns(hints stock)* Current Ride height:

ANSWER 1 (id: 1222_0):
'87 325i cabrio Bavauto springs with spring pads removed Bilstein fronts/Boge rear (from PO, Bilstein sports coming soon) M3 control arms/offset bushings -- all other bushings replaced with stock Stock front sway bar, Eibach rear Bavauto strut tower brace I wouldn't change a thing about my suspension besides the dampers. I know some don't like the bavauto springs, but I am very pleased with them. I never have seen what the spring rates are, but I'm sure they're soft, which suits me just fine.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1222_1):
1989 325ic Eibach pros Billy Sports IE urethane rear mounts (all 6 connection points) treehouse cabs e46 rear shock mounts (may already be blown havent checked for a while) stock sways no strut brace, except of course the welded in bits on the outside of the struts crappy picture pre urethane (i think, no different anyway)

ANSWER 3 (id: 1222_10):
EBS-BMW 3/1 up front (SpecE30 guys say the ebs stands for eibach sportlines anyways they are same specs as h&r race ) stock rears - rear could be lower (perhaps non cabby s ? anybody try this ?)- KYB'S front and rear with new rsm's stock sways , handles well. I guess as i go i've learned that theres no perfect suspension for the cabby . And since we're heavier in the back to begin with then add the extra weight of a box (if you have one ) add say 75-80 lbs there then add a few passengers , this can make rear suspension a challenge.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1222_2):
H&R Sport Springs (coupe front/vert rear) No rear rubber spring spacer Bilstein sport shocks/struts IE Rear upper mounts IE front and rear sway bars with all reinforcements mounts IE strut bar stock CAB and rear bushings http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=91218 has some too...

ANSWER 5 (id: 1222_3):
Originally posted by 87Blue325iC H&R Sport Springs (coupe front/vert rear) No rear rubber spring spacer Bilstein sport shocks/struts IE Rear upper mounts IE front and rear sway bars with all reinforcements mounts IE strut bar stock CAB and rear bushings http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=91218 has some too... How do you like your IE sways? I was thinking of this as the next upgrade.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1222_6):
Groundcontrol Coilovers with Bilstein Shocks Springs: Eibach GC F440lbs, R650lbs Groundcontrol Camberplates Ireland engineering Rear shock mounts, Rear subframe mounts, rear bushing kit M3 Control arm bushings New OEM Tie Rods, control arms Front needs to go lower HELP ME OUT! I got GC camber plates not sure that it will lower it anymore. The Bucket

ANSWER 7 (id: 1222_7):
vogtland springs blistein sport shocks IE 25mm sway for the front (including the reinforced mounts) stock rear sway. handles pretty nice, but it sits just a little bit too low for me. I want it to sit about .5" higher. The rear drops a lot if anyone sits back there, the rates are too low. I'm actually considering going back to the stock springs until i find something more suitable. this ride height thing is a bitch, makes me want to toss in some airbags or adjustable coilovers.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1222_8):
Originally posted by Wiglaf vogtland springs blistein sport shocks IE 25mm sway for the front (including the reinforced mounts) stock rear sway. handles pretty nice, but it sits just a little bit too low for me. I want it to sit about .5" higher. The rear drops a lot if anyone sits back there, the rates are too low. I'm actually considering going back to the stock springs until i find something more suitable. this ride height thing is a bitch, makes me want to toss in some airbags or adjustable coilovers. got any pics of your car please? i was considering these springs for my cabby too but you're the first person to give a negative feedback about them. most of the other comments have been ok or positive. i also thought the rates were ok. higher than the h&r sport rates and less then the race??? any other comments on these springs for a cabby??? thanks W.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1222_9):
I had H&R Cup Kit on my Convertible and it was LOW... too low actually. It wasnt much stiffer than stock and it still had a lot of body roll (convertible duh) No aftermarket sways or anything extra.