QUESTION ID: 2945

QUESTION:
Jumped on here to get everyone's take on it and you guys are all sleeping! Well Rusty Slammington is back from the dead. I guess a barn-fire couldn't kill it. Surprised they kept this thing under the radar for the past 4 years without spilling the beans. Showed it off at SEMA and it currently has a non-running S38 jammed in the back there with a ton of shit up front. I mean, I appreciate the craftsmanship of the wide body, but they should have done something with them doors though. Build Thread: http://www.stanceworks.com/2015/11/t...eveal-at-sema/ And after the "Garage fire" (or as some people say....ahem.....insurance claim)

ANSWER 1 (id: 2945_0):
You forget the f1 style air jacks and push rod suspension. Group 5 wide body. And made it a coupe. He doesnt have his ecu built yet if i understand things correctly. Its also full tube chassis. The s38 is a vac race prepped motor at 14:1 compression around 500hp. Yes the rust is gay but I admire the work forsure.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2945_12):
I like this car just for its evolution's and this one by far has to be one of the craziest. Lets see if it will run the way it looks like it will run. It also reminds me of the older race art cars of yore. I do think one of my favorite versions of the car was early rusty when it still had paint and was trying to be like the VW's with the rusted hood's

ANSWER 3 (id: 2945_13):
I guess all the "Kill it with fire" memes should be removed from teh interwebz. Rusty is proof that it doesn't work. Car looks cool though, I could see Ken Block sliding it around some city.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2945_2):
That's pretty cool. This is coming from someone who applied palm to forehead the first time he saw the first version of it. Not a fan of purposeful rust and distressed paint and stance - it's the automotive equivalent of paying $180 for torn up, scraped up jeans and wearing a $200 ed hardy t-shirt. This is pretty neat though, and now that it has been burnt down, it's not forced "rat look," it's genuine I'm just glad he re-used the old car instead of hacking up a good E28. Originally posted by ST1G Every photo I've seen of this thing is potato quality. This.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2945_5):
while I admire the craftsmanship, and originality, I can't come to grips with the reality that all the fanboys are soaking their skinny jeans on a car with no sparkplug wires. which goes to re-prove my point, that the vast majority of r3v has taken a shit when it comes to wrenching. YES it looks good, no it doesn't run. who cares, it's awesome. AMIRITE?!! keep slamming them oilpans bro's.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2945_6):
You think they made it mid engine and threw all that shit in the bay for looks or was there an effort to make it a good handling car someday? It seems to be an artistic body covering an almost race ready chassis.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2945_7):
Originally posted by ttrousdell You think they made it mid engine and threw all that shit in the bay for looks or was there an effort to make it a good handling car someday? It seems to be an artistic body covering an almost race ready chassis. looks like it's a fully tubed chassis so methinks you're correct.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2945_9):
where the heck did they ever find a 2 door e28? i can appreciate the craftsmanship but its such a same that to me its uglier than a smashed butthole. with that said, its a good thing everyone has different directions they want their build to go. for some reason, that engine looks more to me like an m88.