QUESTION ID: 3219

QUESTION:
Hi guys--I'm new here and currently looking for a fun to drive city car and was thinking of getting an E30. (My current other cars include a 2010 Mini and a 1996 Land Cruiser) I came across a 325i Touring that looks to be in great condition. 63k miles, M/T swap and complete service history since 2009. The current owner has been up front with some issues the car has though most are pretty minor (glove box latch, left headlight beam alignment, digital clock not working). My main concern is the M/T swap--is there anything that I need to look out for to ensure that the swap was done properly? Owner said that the gearing after the M/T conversion is shorter. Is this accurate and how much does it affect drivability? Pricing is quite high at $12,000 but tourings were never sold here officially ( I live in the Philippines) so they command a premium over the sedan/coupe. Slightly above my budget but I'm willing to bite if the car's condition is as good as claimed. Car prices are quite expensive here too compared to the US with a new F30 320d going for around $70,000. Used 325i E30 sedans in fair condition currently go for around $5K-8K around here, mint ones a bit more. Click the link for some pictures and let me know if you guys think its worth it. I plan to have a look at the car this weekend. Dropbox https://www.dropbox.com/sh/2qzssp9j8hwbavx/AAA6EdJj1xZLKJ0-BjJPeD5Ca?dl=0

ANSWER 1 (id: 3219_1):
The reason it has shorter gearing is because they didn't change out the 4.10 differential for a 3.73 like the 5spd cars originally came with. There isn't a whole lot that you could screw up with a conversion. Make sure the correct transmission brace was used (along with mounts)... does cruise control still work (if optioned)... Looks like a really nice touring though :up:

ANSWER 2 (id: 3219_2):
That does in fact look very clean. One thing to note is that it looks like it has Depo replica headlights and it kind of looks like one of the fog light lenses has a hole in it but that could just be the angle. The interior looks stupid clean though, and it has an MTechII steering wheel ($$$) as well as a Husco armrest ($$). The Hartge wheels look great on the car! If that car were for sale here in the states, it probably would be around the same price.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3219_3):
Originally posted by jpod999 That does in fact look very clean. One thing to note is that it looks like it has Depo replica headlights and it kind of looks like one of the fog light lenses has a hole in it but that could just be the angle. The interior looks stupid clean though, and it has an MTechII steering wheel ($$$) as well as a Husco armrest ($$). The Hartge wheels look great on the car! If that car were for sale here in the states, it probably would be around the same price. Thanks for the tip. How can you tell that it has Depo headlights? Owner claims that it has Hella smileys. Any other things I should look out for on the car? Going to have a look this Sunday and I hope its as good as it looks