QUESTION ID: 1148

QUESTION:
Those of you who have read my build thread know I paid around $13.5 for my '89 with 175k miles, rough in areas but it has proven to be very solid as I have dug into it more. This car is an '88, 189k miles, wrecked, rusted, incomplete interior (sitting in boxes), interior still has welds in it from a now removed roll cage and just bid up to $14.7 on eBay before not meeting reserve. [Edit: Relisted - bought for $18K]Needless to say this makes me feel pretty good about owning my E30 M3. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1148_0):
I guess you can't knock that it was used as a track car but it certainly wouldn't be a good candidate for a street car IMO either. I feel I got mine for a decent deal and the above certainly supports that! lol.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1148_10):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 Last thing I want to happen is for my cars to go up in value so much that I can no longer enjoy them. And although I doubt it'll ever happen to my non-M E30, or my 280z, I've heard stories from guys who bought what are now classic cars back when they weren't worth shit. And over the years they went up and up in value, and as a result, so did their insurance, running costs, etc, and they could no longer enjoy them. It's happening to E30 M3s to an extent, and also to 911s. Honestly, I feel kind of bad for the guys who just want to enjoy them, since a lot of them bought them before prices went up. IMO, anyone who is buying a car as an investment is buying for the wrong reasons. You got a good point there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1148_11):
It will probably be used as an example of the work that body shop is capable of. It would be stupid to buy it for any other reason. For 25k you can still get a pretty nice M3, and it's going to take WAY more than 7k to get it to that same condition.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1148_12):
When there were not many production numbers for a vehicle, such as the M3, value and cost of ownership is bound to go up. No way around it. The price of parts for an M3 is not because of the value of the car it is because of the rarity of the car and, consequently, the parts. Regarding buying cars as an investment being the wrong reasons, I do not agree at all. I wish I could have foreseen the F&F non-sense and bought 5 MKIV supras for $15k each and then sold them for more than 2x that after. There are plenty of people that buy cars for investment not unlike real estate. It is far and few between that you buy a car that actually appreciates but if you can find one, why not?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1148_2):
It got relisted after the 14.7k didn't hit reserve and someone hit the buy it now for 18k. Kinda funny that clean original cars in the 150-200k mileage range are sitting at 30k+ this winter (slow season) yet people will buy all these cars with 'stories' for low to mid 20s on ebay all day long. Whoever bought this would've been better off buying the clean 30-35k car with no stories rather than dumping untold thousands into this trainwreck. I guess someone really wanted a project

ANSWER 6 (id: 1148_3):
Trashed M3 Fetches $14.7K - !!! Originally posted by 88Alpine You paid $13.5k? And I thought I over paid mine for under $10k. You made me feel pretty good about mine too. Wheww... Good for you if you got one for $10k. But I definitely didn't overpay for mine (bought in March off eBay on very little info). Frankly it should have sold for at least $10k more if the seller had cleaned it up and provided better info. It's always a risk buying used cars, much less something as rare as these. Wow. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 1148_5):
Trashed M3 Fetches $18K - !!! I hope it gets back on the road, and that the buyer owns a body shop. I like white M3s a lot because you can do racing livery. With no interior this thing's halfway to track special already Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 1148_6):
I don't get the uproar from people when e30's go for huge prices. I mean maybe it's cause we all want more of them and if they fetch a ton, that means no more for us at steals of a deal. Nobody overpays for anything. They pay what they want to pay and get what they want, or they don't pay at all and get nothing. I guess it some people's way of feeling good about themselves to say someone else overpaid.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1148_8):
Originally posted by Ether-D I don't get the uproar from people when e30's go for huge prices. I mean maybe it's cause we all want more of them and if they fetch a ton, that means no more for us at steals of a deal. Last thing I want to happen is for my cars to go up in value so much that I can no longer enjoy them. And although I doubt it'll ever happen to my non-M E30, or my 280z, I've heard stories from guys who bought what are now classic cars back when they weren't worth shit. And over the years they went up and up in value, and as a result, so did their insurance, running costs, etc, and they could no longer enjoy them. It's happening to E30 M3s to an extent, and also to 911s. Honestly, I feel kind of bad for the guys who just want to enjoy them, since a lot of them bought them before prices went up. IMO, anyone who is buying a car as an investment is buying for the wrong reasons.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1148_9):
Originally posted by Ether-D I don't get the uproar from people when e30's go for huge prices. I mean maybe it's cause we all want more of them and if they fetch a ton, that means no more for us at steals of a deal. Nobody overpays for anything. They pay what they want to pay and get what they want, or they don't pay at all and get nothing. I guess it some people's way of feeling good about themselves to say someone else overpaid. Part of what I do for a living involves valuing businesses. Higher comparable transactions support a higher valuation. So I track M3 sales to keep an eye on what mine is worth - when one that is older, higher mileage, and in much worse shape sells for 1/3 more than I paid - that's exciting. I'm still all about enjoying the car, but its nice to know that something I'm putting time and money into is going up in value.