QUESTION ID: 2643

QUESTION:
Hello friends. I need help. I have a 1990 325i. I bought a turbo kit including a chip and begi fmu. I also got a pnp ms2. A few weeks ago I downloaded the m20 base map onto ms2 and pulled it into the car. The car wouldn’t start... after lots of time of playing with settings I still couldn’t get the car to start so I decided to put on the turbo and throw on the fmu and chip. The car started and drove. I blew the HG within 2 miles. I changed the HG and tried again. It blew again after 2 miles. I have ARP head studs and the head was cleaned at a machine shop about a month ago. My waste gate is set at 6 so is my bov. This last drive I did not hear either open.... suggesting that I didn’t even hit 6psi before blowing the HG. I read other members posts and it is clear it is due to lack of tuning. I have a tuner relatively close to my house, but he wants the car to be running on MS before I get it to him. I plan to change the HG next weekend. Can you guys help me. Maybe with a base map for your turbo m20. Or better yet does anyone live in Orange County that would be willing to help me out tuning the MS and I could pay you??

ANSWER 1 (id: 2643_0):
May i suggest you forget trying to find another base map and go through each and every setting and figue out how to make it work, then you will know the ins and outs. the PNP base map is a pretty good start so you just need to diagnose. the basics that you can google (all the info is out there, i know cause i found it all for my m20 ms2 setup) - trigger settings for your setup - and using the tooth log to confirm its working - ensuring the map sensor reads correctly - setting the required fuel section and all the engine parameters - setting up your idle air control settings - setting up starting enrichment and cold start enrichement. - setting up ignition settings for your particular setup - Generating a good starting ignition and VE map. (there is another thread on here where loads of people have posted up copies of their turbo m20 VE maps) - Setting up your wide band 02 (if you have one, i hope you have one) - Generating a good target AFR table - if you intend on using closed loop ego or self tuning. Simply getting someone elses map and uploading it may "work", but you will eventually have to revisit most of the above anyway so you might as well figure out what they do now.