QUESTION ID: 2061

QUESTION:
Hey all, I haven’t been active here for many years, and forgot my password and have long since abandoned the email I used when first joining, so I had to make a new account. I’ve recently moved after being at my house for 11 years, and I found some old e30 parts stashed away in the shed. I need help identifying this skid plate. I’ve searched online and cannot find one like it. Any input is appreciated. - Mike

ANSWER 1 (id: 2061_0):
you kind of identified it already. e30 pan protector, it's not strong enough to be considered a real skid plate. i don't think every car came with it, and they tend to get removed and left off for access. they may have been included at a certain trim level. my car had all the covers intact when i got it, and it was equipped with one. edit : sorry it's the trans pan protector. it attaches to the removable bell housing part in the front. i've had it off my car for a few years. just went to see where it locates.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2061_1):
Originally posted by 82eye you kind of identified it already. e30 pan protector, it's not strong enough to be considered a real skid plate. i don't think every car came with it, and they tend to get removed and left off for access. they may have been included at a certain trim level. my car had all the covers intact when i got it, and it was equipped with one. Gotcha, so it is an OEM part? It is pretty thin aluminum, so yeah probably not very strong. Thanks, I just wasn’t sure if it was an aftermarket piece or optional OEM.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2061_2):
Originally posted by ekim3 Gotcha, so it is an OEM part? It is pretty thin aluminum, so yeah probably not very strong. Thanks, I just wasn’t sure if it was an aftermarket piece or optional OEM. you replied while i edited lol. its' the trans pan protector / splash guard. edit : yeah it's oem.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2061_4):
Originally posted by 82eye found a pic online edit : honestly don't remember it locating on the front sub. just dropped and painted mine. Thanks again. Mine looks a little different, but that looks like where it goes probably.