QUESTION ID: 636

QUESTION:
I'm in the midst of an M-Tech 1 conversion on my 87 325is and after reviewing a number of threads discussing wiring alterations to install euro bumper turn signals on a US car I decided to take a different approach. If you are more comfortable with fabrication then electrical wiring, this approach may be for you. The goal was a quick, clean, plug-and-play installation. It takes just about one hour per side plus epoxy dry time. Euro 2 prong connector: First remove the reflector from the donor US signal assembly. With a dremel you can remove the 3 prong connector from the rear of the US turn signal assembly. Overcut at first and then once removed from the assembly you can trim it to prepare for grafting onto the rear of the Euro signal assembly. Here are the 2 connectors side-by-side In order to get the best angle for the graft, the maintain the overcut lip from the 'steep' side of the US assembly. Cut and trim as depicted by the red line below: Next, use the dremel to cut-off the euro connector from the rear of the assembly. Leave the reflector in place and take care not to cut so deep that you hit the reflector. You only need to remove the protruding connector and leave a hole large enough for the bulb to fit thru. The small hole allows the US connector to be grafted to the back of the Euro assembly which provides sufficient surface area to be epoxied cleanly Here is a picture that shows the 2 components before the epoxy graft, scuff the area before applying the epoxy: This shows the US bulb in place following the graft: Here are some shots of a completed conversion next to a stock Euro assembly: A pair of completed signal assemblies: Tools used: I utilized a plastic epoxy, similar to what you use to repair plastic bumpers. You can see that the US connector is much larger than the Euro connector, but since each signal's connector exits toward the side of the car, there is full clearance for the larger connector because of the large void in the metal valance behind the bumper. Results in a very clean installation. Good Luck

ANSWER 1 (id: 636_2):
Euro Bumper with US turn indicator wiring - Alternative Approach Originally posted by Luis325 Or you can just get in a junkyard the connector from the fuel pump in the tank under the rear seat... Just splice together and plugs straight in.. I've hear that before. When you use the fuel sender connector do the lights still function as parking lights or only as turn signals?

ANSWER 2 (id: 636_3):
Originally posted by DJMCGARM3 I've hear that before. When you use the fuel sender connector do the lights still function as parking lights or only as turn signals? just as turn signals as they should, the parking function should be wired to the city lights.

ANSWER 3 (id: 636_4):
The point of OP's method is to retain the running lights that US diving board cars had. The euro connector in the light housing is only two prong, so the additional connection needs to be added for the running light.

ANSWER 4 (id: 636_5):
Cool idea. I think I cut either the connector or the house to plug up the wiring. It was quite easy. I haven't run into any issues yet. I like the fabrication idea though. I wish I had seen this before I did mine. It looks like more fun.

ANSWER 5 (id: 636_8):
this sounds like a lot of unnecessary work for something so silly. i dont remember what i did it was 3 years ago but i think all i did was buy 2 turn signals from lebanon (or any EU market) and i cut the older wiring and wired it to the turn signals i bought. it took me 5 minutes and they work never a problem.

ANSWER 6 (id: 636_9):
Without city light the front of the car is dark with just the parking lights on. The Japanese version had parking lights integrated with the turn signal but they are NLA.