QUESTION ID: 2961

QUESTION:
in the US an e30...lol http://www.roadandtrack.com/car-cult...ws&date=122017

ANSWER 1 (id: 2961_2):
Originally posted by 2mAn ughhhh I love McLarens... Ive been tempted to blow my money on a certain stupid project I dubbed Poor Mans McLaren Wink wink, nudge nudge....

ANSWER 2 (id: 2961_3):
Originally posted by slammin.e28 Wink wink, nudge nudge.... I know dude... I know I spent all last night watching McLaren F1 videos. That car is nuts and it has a lot of BMW parts on it other than just the engine

ANSWER 3 (id: 2961_4):
Originally posted by 2mAn I know dude... I know I spent all last night watching McLaren F1 videos. That car is nuts and it has a lot of BMW parts on it other than just the engine Imma just sit back and wait for the news.... :devil::devil:

ANSWER 4 (id: 2961_5):
Originally posted by 2mAn ughhhh I love McLarens... Ive been tempted to blow my money on a certain stupid project I dubbed Poor Mans McLaren Originally posted by slammin.e28 Wink wink, nudge nudge.... Ahh, come on guys, do tell!!

ANSWER 5 (id: 2961_6):
Originally posted by IceWhite Ahh, come on guys, do tell!! at this point its just a stupid idea. I think I have some respect left around here so I dont want to reveal my stupid idea until it becomes a stupid project haha edit: let me distract you with is clearly Euro S50 heads X2 Attached Files

ANSWER 6 (id: 2961_7):
Originally posted by 2mAn I know dude... I know I spent all last night watching McLaren F1 videos. That car is nuts and it has a lot of BMW parts on it other than just the engine Did not know this. Originally posted by 2mAn at this point its just a stupid idea. I think I have some respect left around here so I dont want to reveal my stupid idea until it becomes a stupid project haha edit: let me distract you with is clearly Euro S50 heads X2 Lol!! Really?? Nah, Just kidding! Thanks for the distraction though!

ANSWER 7 (id: 2961_8):
Originally posted by IceWhite Did not know this. I dont think it was something they advertised. Its known that the motor is all BMW, but in watching a few videos it looks like they used Hella round lights (ie ellipsoids) that could be of E30 or even E36 origin. Inside it looked like it has BMW stalks on the steering column, a power window switch and possibly the power mirror motor as well.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2961_9):
Originally posted by 2mAn I dont think it was something they advertised. Its known that the motor is all BMW, but in watching a few videos it looks like they used Hella round lights (ie ellipsoids) that could be of E30 or even E36 origin. Inside it looked like it has BMW stalks on the steering column, a power window switch and possibly the power mirror motor as well. Shhh.....shhhhhh.........