QUESTION ID: 408

QUESTION:
Can either the Sparco or Ireland Engineering (they look the same) strut braces fit a M42 318i/is? Has anyone been able to make one fit without the use of washers?

ANSWER 1 (id: 408_1):
I'm one of the few with a Sparco bar on the M42. I am using washers, and will be putting the 3rd bolt hole in before my next autocross. However I have driven several hundred hundred miles and been to 3 autocrosses and have had no ill effects do to using washers. Also I feel that there is no reason that this method is flawed as the inherent design of the bar places the pressure of the bar on the sides of the strut towers pushing outward rather than just on the strut bolts trying to shear them off.

ANSWER 2 (id: 408_2):
K. How much clearance do you have with the washer method? I'm starting to think that maybe it would be possible to gain some clearance by taking a grinding wheel to the intake manifold. The problem with modifying the intake manifold is that I don't know exactly how thick the metal is.

ANSWER 3 (id: 408_3):
I did use a Dremel on the back of the intake. Took off probably around 5mm of metal. It's right at the back corner so I would assume it's fairly thick. As for clearence I can fit a sheet of paper between the engine and the bar. Mostly do to good engine mounts it doesn't rub. I have taken the bar off to inspect for any rubbing but it hasn't happened.

ANSWER 4 (id: 408_6):
Originally posted by boom-monkey I did use a Dremel on the back of the intake. Took off probably around 5mm of metal. It's right at the back corner so I would assume it's fairly thick. As for clearence I can fit a sheet of paper between the engine and the bar. Mostly do to good engine mounts it doesn't rub. I have taken the bar off to inspect for any rubbing but it hasn't happened. Good mounts is right. My engine definately moves at least the thickness of a piece of paper during start up. Does the bar rest above the manifold or behind it?

ANSWER 5 (id: 408_8):
FYI the IE bar is crap... I bought it and returned it. I could easily bend it with my hands, it was poorly welded, poorly painted, didn't fit properl,y and took 2 months to arrive... Plus you have to drill into your strut tower which is a bad idea... I'm very please with the BAS bar which is made in the same factory as the old Hartge bars... It's exactly the same as the Hartge bar without the name and for less money. Plus it fits perfect, looks great, and is VERY strong.

ANSWER 6 (id: 408_9):
Yes I know, I've been locking at getting some longer studs but I don't know where to look for them. If you have any leads please let me know. It does worry me that the nuts aren't fully threaded and so I check them basically before every drive.