QUESTION ID: 1247

QUESTION:
I've searched tirelessly on forums, Google and the Bentley manual and thus far have been unsuccessful in finding a definitive answer to my question. I was able to remove the A/C evap core in my vert, but not without damaging the fins. I knew I would be replacing it, so wasn't too worried about removal. However, I'm trying to find the best way to install the new one without damaging the fins. I found 1 thread where a poster referenced the issue with evap core removal in his vert (more difficult due to clearance issues caused by battery tray location in engine bay), but I think he ended up just flushing his in place. Does anyone have any suggestions? To do it correctly and without damage, does the dash need to come out? I'm able to move the harness out of the way for the most part, but the lower, left edge of the interior battery tray insulation causes interference. Pic and top down diagram attached for reference. Thank you in advance. J Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1247_0):
Originally posted by m2d2 Does anyone have any suggestions? To do it correctly and without damage, does the dash need to come out? You’re not going to like the answer to this one: Yep, you gotta pull out the dash AND the HVAC box if you want to slide it in without any fin damage. That job is a bitch in and of itself, and one where I personally would be willing to accept a few bent fins on the new evaporator. They won’t really affect cooling performance as long as the system isn’t leaking like a sieve. The only suggestion I have is to remove the evaporator temperature switch (not sure if you already did this). It should make it easier to slide the evaporator in and reduce the number of bent fins.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1247_1):
Thank you for the reply, ZeKahr. I value your input, even though it wasn't the answer I was hoping for. With this newfound knowledge, I proceeded to remove a small section of the brown insulation from the lower left corner of the interior battery tray mount. I unplugged the harness in order to push it out of the way and make room for the new core, while a friend carefully slid it into place. Fortunately, there was minimal resistance during the process and I think basically no damage to any fins. I understand that cutting the padding/insulation is not the ideal solution, but considering the circumstances, I was willing to accept this outcome. The removed piece holds itself in place but I'll add some adhesive for peace of mind when reinstalling and don't it won't cause any issues since it is completely hidden from view. Hopefully this helps a future vert owner looking to take on this project. Thanks again!

ANSWER 3 (id: 1247_2):
A late note of caution. Assuming you replaced the temp probe (from the drivers side) DO NOT use the probe to pierce the fins in the new evaporator. It's soft aluminum and will bend with a good chance it will interfere w your blend door. I went an entire winter w limited heat as a result...yes duhhh ! use a thin Philips screw driver to pierce the fins then install the probe.