QUESTION ID: 70

QUESTION:
After a bunch of mucking around, I found that t having a failing socket pin (female), #8 on connector C114 that connects under the fuse box to power fuses 4,5,6,7. I want to de-pin and re-pin the socket, but I've never done this before. I'm new to dealing with electronics. Unfortunately, I don't know the type of socket pin and I can't find the info online. All the info that I can find is for C101, C109, Bosch types, and others that do not look like C114 connector. Similarly, the de-pinners and pins that I see are for these connectors (may C114 rarely fails?) C114 is a long what plastic connector with eight prong holes. Pin #8 is on the right end, with the purple wire. Questions: From the attached pics, can someone 1. recommend an appropriate de-pinning tool (Amazon has a large variety)? 2. tell me the size of the pin? Any help is greatly appreciated!​

ANSWER 1 (id: 70_0):
So if I understand correctly the purple wire on right came out and you are wanting to re-attach it? Out of curiousity what are you trying to fix? I came across your thread because I have a few electric gremlins I am trying to fix.

ANSWER 2 (id: 70_1):
Originally posted by CMG So if I understand correctly the purple wire on right came out and you are wanting to re-attach it? Out of curiousity what are you trying to fix? I came across your thread because I have a few electric gremlins I am trying to fix. The wire didn't come out, but the inner socket for pin #8 appears to have gone bad. The socket and the pin were dirty, unlike the rest of the sockets and pins. And, when cleaning the sockets on the connector with a cue tip stem and cleaner, I noticed that the tip went deeper into socket #8, which is the one causing my problems. So, it seems like there might be a broken spring or tabs that is making it hard for the pin to make a good connection within the socket. I'm hoping that replacing the pin socket will solve the problem. When I hold the connector tight to the fuse deck, the problems go away. The problem. Intermittently, a cluster of electronics would go out: horn, wipers, turn signals, and brake lights (and apparently the cruise control and glove box light, which i didn't know as I had no reason for checking), Long story short, finally came to learn that the problem was caused by a bad connection in pin # of the C114 connector, which connects to the bottom of the fuse panel, feeding fuses 4,5,,6,7, which power the electronics that kept going out. I want to change out this pin but I can't find any information on C114 or the pin sockets. I hope that makes sense. I new to dealing with electronics.

ANSWER 3 (id: 70_2):
Ah, OK. I have intermittent electrical issue but only with wipers. I do know that BMW used to sell replacement wire sockets and plastic socket holders. Hard to tell from pic but round sockets usually just pull out and aren't clipped in. Use a flashlight to look in and try to determine mechanism. You might be able to just pull out socket #8 and resolder or replace. This thread might have some useful general info about working on fusebox wiring. my fusebox is bad. rebuild it? - R3VLimited Forums​