QUESTION ID: 1995

QUESTION:
Trying to purchase an intake kit but can't seem to get any response from anyone. Also, do they ship to Canada Thanks in advance.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1995_0):
Here is what I have concluded. I have been lurking and posting occasionally for a few years. 2 years ago i sent in a request about turbos to him through his website and asked if he was up and running. I got no response. I haven't seen any activity either. Since no one wants to speak up about his situation and i do not really know what is going on My guess is as with most after market turbo applications on engines not designed for boost its possible that the reliability of his turbo kits and warranty complaints may have helped him decide to get out of business. Someone has said family, life problems but that happens to us all and we need to keep making a living so I am not sure about that idea. Its too bad because it looked like he had a good thing going. I do hope he and his family are okay and It would be great to get access to information about how long term reliability with his turbo kits has been. At a minimum, if the kit was unreliable it would help other's decide to not go that route. No harm in that and its good usefull info for us all.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1995_1):
Originally posted by FoxE30 Trying to purchase an intake kit but can't seem to get any response from anyone. Also, do they ship to Canada Thanks in advance. They're still active on ebay and have 31 positive review in the last 30 days, so they must still be going. I need an intake as well for my 2002 M42 swap and there's really nothing else in the same quality range so I think I'm going to go for it. Should have double protection if you go through eBay and Paypal.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1995_10):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Bumping a old post. I believe this is Kameron and his brother's new site. https://www.7speedshop.com/pages/about-us Can confirm, this is correct

ANSWER 4 (id: 1995_11):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i I always loved Kam's enthusiasm, and his car always looked great, but his M30 turbo build didn't give me much confidence in his workmanship (hence I'd be a little suspicious of his kits too). His M20 turbo seemed reliable enough, but the M30 he built was nothing but trouble - most of his issues seemed to stem from a lack of attention to detail & poorly putting the engine together leading to a myriad of issues - eg. overheating issues, flywheel "working loose", etc. The M30 segment of his build thread begins here: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...11#post6022111 Yeah I believe the M20 is his forte. Either way I believe he has done a lot good in the way of making a turboing more streamline. And he regularly beats on his stuff.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1995_12):
I'd stay away from his turbo kits, I saw his red turbo e30 featured on the smoking tire and the car needed methanol injection or else it wouldn't boost. Bad tuning or poorly sized turbo

ANSWER 6 (id: 1995_4):
Got mine in no issues! Looks amazing. The real let down is the M42 AFM adapter and the "gasket" that comes with it. The AFM adapter is metal and the hole pattern is close enough, but the mating flange was fairly warped. It took about 20 minutes of sanding by hand (with 3 steps of grit) on my work bench to get it flat enough for me to be happy. The "gasket" is made out of a hard, thick, non-malliable material that seems like Polystyrene or something similar. Also WILDLY warped, and since it's completely non-conforming it's essentially useless as a gasket. Ended up sanding this flat enough to use as well, but used some gasket maker on both sides of it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1995_5):
Not to stir the pot too much, but I was under the impression that the KAmotors intake was a generic intake mildly modified to suit an E30. The quality you experienced seems par for the course. It may very well be an eBay kit with a sticker. Here's some more info: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...otors-knockoff

ANSWER 8 (id: 1995_8):
Bumping a old post. I believe this is Kameron and his brother's new site. About Us https://www.7speedshop.com/pages/about-us Seven Speed Shop started from the passion of building and modifying 80's and 90's BMW's. Brothers Kameron and Jordan Baker have been working on BMW's for over 10 years before deciding to turn their hobbies into a career. Specializing in custom builds such as manual conversions, turbo kits, suspension setups, and more,

ANSWER 9 (id: 1995_9):
I always loved Kam's enthusiasm, and his car always looked great, but his M30 turbo build didn't give me much confidence in his workmanship (hence I'd be a little suspicious of his kits too). His M20 turbo seemed reliable enough, but the M30 he built was nothing but trouble - most of his issues seemed to stem from a lack of attention to detail & poorly putting the engine together leading to a myriad of issues - eg. overheating issues, flywheel "working loose", etc. The M30 segment of his build thread begins here: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...11#post6022111