QUESTION ID: 317

QUESTION:
Hey guys/gals. I'm still pretty noob, but been piecing together a suspension setup for my car, i just want to do 1 day, full install, so i want to know if i am forgetting anything.. here is what i have in shipping, or in my trunk: IE 22mm sway bar- rear IE Front Adjustable 22mm sway bar- front Front Camber Plates Sparco Front Strut Brace In my shopping car at IE (tell me if i should add, take out anything): Rear Shock Mounts (the billet alumn) Rear Bushing kit (needed for rear sway bar)-Urethane REar Sway Bar Mount-2 of those I need suggestions on the shock/strut and spring combo, decided against coilvers, because as well as they handle, they will cost more than i paid for my car, and I could use the money to help pass smog, and fix up the interior a bit. Well, anything else I may need? As i said, i just want to do a cheap setup that will be good for occasionaly SCCA auto-x, and i want to do it all at once. I am upgrading my brakes too, well going through IE with front cross drilled, rear OEM replacement, and the Mintex Red Box Pads all around. Thanks for any input! -Roy the noob

ANSWER 1 (id: 317_2):
You will most probably be disappointed w/ HR springs, especially with everything else youre doing. Go with the IEstg3/koni combo, you wont be disappointed, it will be quite a bit more harsh than stock but worth it imo. I have no personal experience but it sounds like those billet aluminum rsm might add quite a bit of NVH, someone correct me if im wrong.

ANSWER 2 (id: 317_3):
Originally posted by madjurgen You will most probably be disappointed w/ HR springs, especially with everything else youre doing. Go with the IEstg3/koni combo, you wont be disappointed, it will be quite a bit more harsh than stock but worth it imo. I have no personal experience but it sounds like those billet aluminum rsm might add quite a bit of NVH, someone correct me if im wrong. yea, i think i want the IEstg3's, but not sure about the shcok/strut. i used to have AGX's in my last car, loved them for their ability to change the dampening. so would want the same. How about the GC's? i had GC's in my last car, liked those too, anyone here have 'em and like 'em? or are they too overpriced

ANSWER 3 (id: 317_4):
I'm rollin with IE3 springs and bilstein sports lowers the car, nice firm ride, can get a lil bouncy on rough roads at times but thats the trade off for a tight suspension

ANSWER 4 (id: 317_5):
Originally posted by SpunkyE30nOk I'm rollin with IE3 springs and bilstein sports lowers the car, nice firm ride, can get a lil bouncy on rough roads at times but thats the trade off for a tight suspension sweet.. that is the kind of stuff I want to hear, like how the suspension will be in my daily life. I used to have a modified Infintii G20, and the suspensions etup on that, was very similar.. tight ride, but bumpy at times. It was running KYB AGX's and GC coilover springs. I like the AGX's and the Koni Yellows, might opt for the Koni's for this car becuase of the dampening control, which I don't thinkt he Bilsteins offer.

ANSWER 5 (id: 317_6):
I haven't dealt with the billsteins but I've heard to run the IE springs properly you should have them revalved. I've got the IE 3 springs and Koni adjustables getting ready to install and I've heard nothing but good things.