QUESTION ID: 3142

QUESTION:
I can't be the only one...does nobody else here listen to DWA? It is a group of dudes in Santa Cruz that talk almost entirely about European cars from the 80s and 90s. Topics certainly cover other frequencies in the automotive spectrum but I think all 4 of them have owned an E30 at one point or another. Anyone nerdy enough to own an old BMW will enjoy it. DWA! http://www.drivingwhileawesome.com/ Experts in automotive opinion. Vintage cars, Porsches, BMWs, Mercedes, Ferrari, Audi, Saab, Alfa Romeo Driving While Awesome https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/driving-while-awesome/id867727969?mt=2 Automotive Podcast · Updated Daily · Driving While Awesome is an automotive podcast starring Lane Skelton, Waarren Madsen, and Art Cervantes. Experts in automotive opinion, long-time friends discuss topics on cars of all types, heavy on … Podcasts | Pandora http://www.stitcher.com/podcast/driving-while-awesome Discover your favorite Podcasts from a variety of categories including Daily News, Music, Business, True Crime, Comedy, Politics and more. Listen to Podcasts on Pandora.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3142_0):
You're not alone. I love listening to these guys. Would have loved to have taken part in their Coastal Range Rally if I weren't all the way in Australia.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3142_1):
I'm planning on the next one. They stopped in at my local cars and coffee during the last one so was great to finally meet some of the crew in person.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3142_3):
Thanks for bringing this to my attention, I really enjoyed listening to the last project car update podcast. I hadn't ever heard of these guys before!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3142_4):
Originally posted by jpod999 Thanks for bringing this to my attention, I really enjoyed listening to the last project car update podcast. I hadn't ever heard of these guys before! Just paying it forward - a buddy told me about it last summer and I've been hooked ever since. I started at episode 1 and am almost done with 171 so I should be caught up soon. I credit them for finally pushing me over the E30 edge.