QUESTION ID: 338

QUESTION:
i was wondering if you need to torque down anything to a specific level when reinstalling the front strut assembly or anything in the rear. thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 338_0):
Originally posted by DaveCN yes, you do Yeah, lugnuts. 90ft/lbs Everything else should be be tight enough to not back out or cause play, but not so tight that you start breaking shit. Although, since you're asking you probably should get yourself a Bentley manual, which has all of the torque specs you need.

ANSWER 2 (id: 338_1):
Originally posted by Brew Yeah, lugnuts. 90ft/lbs Everything else should be be tight enough to not back out or cause play, but not so tight that you start breaking shit. Although, since you're asking you probably should get yourself a Bentley manual, which has all of the torque specs you need. thanks!

ANSWER 3 (id: 338_10):
You really need to cut the stock lower spring collar off of the stock strut tube and reweld the smaller GC perch if you want to drop the car down low.

ANSWER 4 (id: 338_11):
Originally posted by Digitalwave Caliper bolts are 91ft/lbs, I always torque those to spec. Same with the wheel nuts. The top bolt for the shock is hard to torque to spec, and the control arm and tie rod ends I just crank down. You don't have to remove the calipers to do the front suspension. Compress the spring on the car remove upper mount remove locking cap for strut insert slide strut insert out through tower replace spring with new spring slide new insert in and tighten cap install top mount uncompress spring job done.. Take about 30 minutes per side in the front.

ANSWER 5 (id: 338_2):
Caliper bolts are 91ft/lbs, I always torque those to spec. Same with the wheel nuts. The top bolt for the shock is hard to torque to spec, and the control arm and tie rod ends I just crank down.

ANSWER 6 (id: 338_3):
Originally posted by Brew Although, since you're asking you probably should get yourself a Bentley manual, which has all of the torque specs you need. So true. I did not provide that as he did not ask for it. I answered the questions exactly as he asked it. ;-)

ANSWER 7 (id: 338_6):
wel i put the fronts in and it just raised the car. i dont think the coilovers i ordered fit the strut i have. i got the ones the fit oem and tokico shocks. what i have is an oem strut with a tokico shock. anybody could help me out cause i even put the lock on the perch all the way down and still the car was high. anybody have any idea whats up? thanks!

ANSWER 8 (id: 338_8):
Originally posted by Digitalwave What coilovers are they? Spring lengths and rates? i finished the job yesturday but wen i lowered the car from the lift it stayed high. like higher than stock or stock height! my spring rates are.... front- GC150.64.66 rear- GC140.64.83 Front: 6" spring height, 2.5" spring diameter, 375lb/in spring rate Rear: 5.5" spring height, 2.5" spring diameter, 475lb/in spring rate

ANSWER 9 (id: 338_9):
I dont have coil-overs but isn't the point that you can adjust the ride height? Try turning that collar down. Also dont you need shortened strut bodies for coilovers? No need to skylift your e30.