QUESTION ID: 2977

QUESTION:
Where are all the VIN tag locations? Did they change From earlier to later E30s? Here is what I've found so far: Firewall Dash Drivers door

ANSWER 1 (id: 2977_11):
Originally posted by mikeedler euro cars only got the stamped section on the cowl, and the tag above the right side headlight in the engine comp. that's it. no stickers at all. U.S. cars have em on everything- I assume they still had a VIN tag on the dash? If not, does that mean there are dashes without pre-drilled holes for tags?

ANSWER 2 (id: 2977_12):
Originally posted by herbivor Mine is a 85 320i Euro and has been repainted. I don't have any tags on the fenders, trunk lid, B-pillars, or hood. I don't even see where the tags would've been. And I'm pretty sure the inside bits weren't repainted. With that you would suspect something fishy but there are no signs of ever having been in an accident or stolen. So I'm not sure what's up. Eu cars don't have the same requirements. It was a theft preventive done by dot.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2977_13):
I remember the VIN tags on everything being a theft deterrent here in the US. I was in the wrecking business and remember having to mark individual parts with a yard Number, which we could back trace to a VIN or Title. I just wasn't sure if they did it in Europe too.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2977_2):
Somewhere along 1986. My 11/84 535i has none on the body panels, but on the firewall and other normal locations there is one. My 1986 535i (parted) had them on the fenders, etc.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2977_3):
Mine is a 85 320i Euro and has been repainted. I don't have any tags on the fenders, trunk lid, B-pillars, or hood. I don't even see where the tags would've been. And I'm pretty sure the inside bits weren't repainted. With that you would suspect something fishy but there are no signs of ever having been in an accident or stolen. So I'm not sure what's up.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2977_5):
Originally posted by jlevie My 87 325is has vin tags on the front fenders, doors, hood, trunk lid, cowl, dash, and driver's B pillar. It should also have them inside each bumper and on the rear quarter panels just behind the wheel arches. It's visible in this pic below the fuel door and just in front of where the rear marker lights would be if the bumper was on:

ANSWER 7 (id: 2977_6):
Originally posted by Quadrajet I wonder if cars for the Euro market had to have all parts marked like what we see here in the US? Just a thought. Good question. On a US car if a panel has been replaced it will have a DOT-R sticker where the VIN tag would normally be.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2977_7):
Originally posted by agent It should also have them inside each bumper and on the rear quarter panels just behind the wheel arches. It's visible in this pic below the fuel door and just in front of where the rear marker lights would be if the bumper was on: This is why I don't get why everyone was in a furor over that car that was registered as a 318, but was an M3. Why can't we check these places and put it to rest? SRSLY.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2977_9):
euro cars only got the stamped section on the cowl, and the tag above the right side headlight in the engine comp. that's it. no stickers at all. U.S. cars have em on everything-