QUESTION ID: 2171

QUESTION:
Hey guys - thanks for reading - Dropped off my M30b35 head at Bimmerheads in Santa Clarita on January 26th 2022. It has been 32 days - I still do not have a quote. I called in once a week to check in and the only info I got was they were waiting on a rocker shaft- which I asked if they needed help sourcing- to which they said no. 2 weeks later they still say they still don’t have the part even though I see it in stock and available through major distributors like parts geek, Turner, ECS. I’ve been feeling like I keep getting the run around - so I came in last Wednesday (28 days from initial drop off) and the guys basically told me they are too busy. But now my head is disassembled at their shop… and they told me they don’t know when they can get to it. I’m at a complete loss at how I’ve been treated there… wondering how any of you might approach this situation…

ANSWER 1 (id: 2171_0):
I cant comment on BH as I never worked with them or seen their work. If I was getting the runaround for a month, I would go and pick up my parts and take them to Steves Machine Shop in Azusa and be done with it. It be nice to hear their side of the story and why it is taking so long, but a month without even knowing the cost is not ok … they should be able to give you that right away. My 2 cents.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2171_1):
Yeah I think that’s going to be the plan for tomorrow when they open up… The reasons they gave me are that they are working on too many large projects - “there is a $10k and $8k engine build ahead of you so we are working on getting those done” - basically they have bigger fish to fry. I’m really really disappointed with Bimmerheads. Going to make sure all of my friends in the community avoid them. Thanks for the machine shop suggestion! I’m not too far from Azusa

ANSWER 3 (id: 2171_10):
I've used Bimmerheads before and they were great. It sucks about how things are going in the world. It seems to be worse on the West end especially. They are a great shop. I've worked with people before that got overwhelmed an were not able help me. Enough though promises were made shit happens. But it's your money so if you find another shop that you trust and want to go that route then do it. But BimmerHeads is a great shop and I personally will be using them no matter what. Everything is behind and/or not in stock. It sucks but life sometimes gives you a shit sandwich.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2171_11):
Originally posted by cheffy30 Take it back and go somewhere else less conjested. I recently waited 6 weeks for a flywheel to be lightened at IE... patience padowan. A flywheel isn’t a head though. Last flywheel I had machined and lightened, I took to my local machine shop and they did it within a couple of hours. Took it there in the morning, picked it up in the afternoon. Unless you desperately need the car back on the road, I’d just wait until they can fit it in. Everything is slow at the moment.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2171_12):
It’s fine that places are busy but it’s not hard to communicate and say that we probably can’t look at it for a couple months or something to that effect. In my experience that’s what good and professional shops do. i would look an alternative even if it doesn’t get resolved quicker

ANSWER 6 (id: 2171_13):
Had my S52 head rebuilt plus some minor issues sorted by BH a few years back and it was about 2 months. When I got the car back it was well sorted. They even replaced things that didn't bother me and I consider myself kinda picky. They have a high level of quality which is good but often takes time. The parts supply chain has become shaky making things harder to get. Be patient, you have some of the best guys working on your vintage BMW which is better than getting the car back and having it smoke and overheat several times as I have had happen after dealing with an incompetent shop which caused me to miss several meets and shows. Have it done right the first time!

ANSWER 7 (id: 2171_2):
Most everyone and everything is backed up, In going or out going and good help is hard to find. Bummer about how the situation was handled though. I just finding asking for an expedited fee usually speeds things up or a deposit. Good work is hard to come by, Good luck.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2171_3):
Take it back and go somewhere else less conjested. I recently waited 6 weeks for a flywheel to be lightened at IE... patience padowan. sent fresh from hell using tapatalk

ANSWER 9 (id: 2171_4):
Been awhile but I had a head built by them years ago. No complaints on the work done or the time. Just as an opposing opinion. Going in for a quote what were you expecting to get done?

ANSWER 10 (id: 2171_5):
Originally posted by Enigma_335i Thanks for the machine shop suggestion! I’m not too far from Azusa Steve's isn't going to be any shorter. In fact, they've largely closed down their open customer side, precisely for being too busy and dealing with customer with unrealistic expectations. They (and bimmerheads) do fantastic work. As someone who has been on the supplier side I've gotten to know all of the vintage BMW related shops in California, there are very few on par or better than Matt/Shant. If them pointing out the realities of doing business with a quality shop right now is too much for you to handle, then there are certainly a number of other shops you can roll the dice with. Side note, a number of rocker shafts on the market right now are made with incorrect spacing. Fun times.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2171_7):
I called them a few months ago and they told me that it would be like 2 months, so I just did it myself. I can echo the shitty rocker shaft problem. I built a head with 2 new units, I think they were Myle or something. Still sounds a little dodgy I would pick up and go somewhere else. When I have waits, I wont let the customer bring it in until I can work on it. It's better for everyone.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2171_8):
Quality of work there is good . Great attention to detail . But they have soooooo much work and not enough workers I guess you could say . But then again why take it in if they can’t get to it . Is a bit of a mystery to me .