QUESTION ID: 3285

QUESTION:
What did you guys do for Halloween? Any cool parties, car shows or other activities? Lets see some videos or photos that are Halloween and car content inspired. We went out and gave some clowns hell!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3285_1):
Hid from the trick or treaters at my favorite local tavern. Dressed up in a costume I like to call "working class hero" which I wear most days. The end.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3285_10):
My girlfriend, daughter and I went together with a theme for Halloween! (No, my face isn't half white. I'm just another greasy Mexican.) Sent from my SM-G920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3285_11):
Daughter has been planning Halloween since this summer (she's 3.) Wife and her dressed as dinosaurs and dad (me) was a caveman. We terrorized Alberta st during there huge Trick or Treat bash for the kids, then went to her Preschool for their party. Dad had a beer (or two) and watched the kids all wear themselves out playing in their costumes. Afterwords, we sat at home until 10 PM terrorizing trick or treaters with all the spooky decorations at our house that my daughter designed and help me put up. I'll try to post a video of the Giant spider we had in the front yard that my daughter would remotely trigger... She loved scaring people!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3285_3):
Since we now live in the middle of nowhere, the family went to Grandma's for trick or treating while I stayed home to wrench on the Audi and generally fuck off. (Grandma's is 2.5hrs away and I have work.)

ANSWER 5 (id: 3285_4):
I handed out candy and scared the crap out of some kids and parents with a creepy mask and chainsaw.... Did anybody notice a lack of trick-or-treaters? I think I only had like 6 or 7 groups of kids ring my bell.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3285_6):
Originally posted by ArtFoodBMW Did anybody notice a lack of trick-or-treaters? I think I only had like 6 or 7 groups of kids ring my bell. I noticed that too actually. We used to have non stop door knocking from about 6-9pm in the past...this year we also had less than a handful of Trick or Treaters...weird

ANSWER 7 (id: 3285_9):
Originally posted by ArtFoodBMW Did anybody notice a lack of trick-or-treaters? I think I only had like 6 or 7 groups of kids ring my bell. It's dangerous out there... that's why we keep all the kids locked up inside and distract them with video games and iphones.