QUESTION ID: 1083

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, I'm way behind on my build thread, but not on the build :-) I'll catch up on the thread over Thanksgiving. But I wanted to get some input from people on subframe reinforcement kits. Has anyone here installed one? any recommendations? It looks like there are kits for both the removable subframes, and for the chassis itself. My front sway bar had detached itself on one end when i went to unistall it, so I'm thinking I'll want a kit with the front sway bar reinforcement point. Impressions on both are welcome. I want to reinforce anything that needs it while the car is a bare rolling chassis. Here are a few that I found: And here are some pics of the chassis! Turner: http://www.turnermotorsport.com/p-13...FYM6gQod5ZYL_A Garagistic Frame Kit: 404 Not Found http://store.garagistic.com/e30-performance-parts/complete-e30-chassis-reinforcments Garagistic is your trusted source for high-quality BMW performance parts, specializing in E30, E36, E46, and more. Discover custom-engineered components, from suspension upgrades to drivetrain solutions, designed to enhance your BMW's performance. Shop now for fast shipping, expert support, and unparalleled quality. Garagistic Reinforced Subframes: E30 Reinforced Front Subframe exclusive at Garagistic http://store.garagistic.com/E30-reinforced-front-subframe?gclid=CISL4rjdg8kCFdgOgQodBJYMFQ E30 REINFORCED FRONT SUBFRAME Out of all the mods available for the E30, this is one of the most important modifications you should consider if you drive your car hard or plan on adding more power. The Garagistic reinforced front subframe arrives with a fresh coat of black military-spec powder coating, in addition to VAC Motorsports VAC Motorsports Complete Chassis Reinforcement Kit, BMW E30 https://store.vacmotorsports.com/vac-bmw-e30-complete-chassis-reinforcement-kit-p1781.aspx Chassis type: E30 (non M); E30 M3 (includes front S-B tabs). And the pics of the car as it sits now!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1083_1):
Pm us your needs. We have kits in stock but also have the core exchange program for front subframes, rear subframes (with adjustablity) and even trailing arms.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1083_2):
From what I read, the only difference is the m3 front subframe has factory reinforcements. If you're going to install reinforcements, it ends up being the same or better. The rear subframe has an extra exhaust hanger, but is otherwise the same. I'll be sending in my rear subframe to Garagistic for reinforcements and geometry adjustability when I get the chance. Originally posted by jhaurimn Front subframes are different from non-ms and m's, unfortunately. Keep that in mind

ANSWER 3 (id: 1083_3):
I used the stuff from Turner. They've been around these cars since the Noble days. The rears on my car were still OK, but I went ahead and (gasp) drilled the holes to do the install. Much better than having them rip out. I had repaired, reinforced the strut mounts once before, but this time around we welded the heck out of everything. The motor mount on my sud-frame was cracked, so I had my buddy weld in the reinforcement plate. He then asked if I wanted this other crack welded...Yes! When done, he asked about all the other cracks, too. Just call it my Sub-Franken.