QUESTION ID: 3065

QUESTION:
Hi all -- I long-ago made a deal with my wife that I'd sell my e36 M3 track car when it was time for us to start a family. The combination of maintain the car and 1 weekend a month at the track is just too much money and time (especially time). Well, that time is fast approaching and I'll be selling it over the next 6-12 months. So the question is what next.... I am looking to do my first restomod on an e30 coupe, which I've loved since I was a kid. (I was initially thinking a touring, but CARB just makes it too much of a PITA, so coupe it is). Initially, I was thinking of searching out a 325iX (love the fender flares and added practicality of AWD), but I'm starting to wonder if I might be better off with a 325is. It just seems like parts and DIY support will be easier to find, and I'll have more flexibility with engine swaps, suspension fund, etc down the road. My goals would be an exquisitely restored car under $10-15K all-in. Car will just be for puttering around town on weekends, occasionally driving to work, feeling hip/cool, and maybe 1 HPDE weekend a year. Any help with pro/cons would be much appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3065_0):
From what you mentioned above, it sounds like a 325is is what you need. My opinion is to pass on the 325ix. It is overly complex for what you want. I will say, good luck on 10-15k all in. That word exquisitely says to me that you want something very very nice. 15k is probably half of what you will need, in all honesty. Myself, along with others here have invested upwards of 20k on E30's, and mine at least, did not reach exquisite status at all. Whichever path you take, good luck! P.S. post up some pics of that E36 M3!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3065_1):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is From what you mentioned above, it sounds like a 325is is what you need. My opinion is to pass on the 325ix. It is overly complex for what you want. I will say, good luck on 10-15k all in. That word exquisitely says to me that you want something very very nice. P.S. post up some pics of that E36 M3! Could you (or some others) elaborate a bit on what makes the 325iX more complex? Like specific systems that will be a lot harder to work on / access / cost more, etc? On build cost -- you're definitely right. I guess I should clarify $10-15K is what I'd like to get car to the point where car is running reasonably reliably and a normal person (like my wife) would look at/in the car and say "Nice antique, I wouldn't mind being seen publicly in that." From there, as money permits, it will be a slow bleed to make it "perfect" with custom re-upholstered interior, fresh paint job, etc. Does that seem reasonable? I've been meaning to take photos of the track car and post -- will do over next couple weekends. I'm sad (hence reluctant) to sell immediately.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3065_10):
I'd go with the is for reasons mentioned above. Don't forget too that the ix will be heavier as well, because of having AWD... and I agree with the above assessments of it as well. There is a user here with a sig line that calls the ix "the most hateful breed of E30" LOL

ANSWER 4 (id: 3065_11):
Originally posted by flyboyx i would NEVER drive any e30 in the winter salt. awd or not. This!!! It would be one thing to take one out in the snow in places out West where they don't use salt, but back East absolutely not. I still wouldn't do this in a nice rust free E30 in the snow to begin with. It is sad not to drive an iX in the winter as they are awesome and a lot of fun in the snow. Don't buy or build a $15K+ iX (or any regular E30) and then drive it on the salty roads. If you want to use it like that, buy a cheap one that already has some body issues and then drive the piss out of it and not worry about painting it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3065_12):
Originally posted by flyboyx as already mentioned above, awd e30's are too complicated, too fragile, and the parts are too expensive for what you want to do. I guess that pretty much settles it. Not a single vote for the AWD -- geez. I guess I better go modify my WTB post and change it to an iS. Glad we got that settled. Originally posted by flyboyx i would NEVER drive any e30 in the winter salt. awd or not. Ah yes, steel wasn't galvanized back then.... Probably a super noob question here, but couldn't you theoretically treat the steel somehow to prevent rust? I guess this build will be more of a summer car.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3065_2):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is From what you mentioned above, it sounds like a 325is is what you need. My opinion is to pass on the 325ix. It is overly complex for what you want. I will say, good luck on 10-15k all in. That word exquisitely says to me that you want something very very nice. 15k is probably half of what you will need, in all honesty. Myself, along with others here have invested upwards of 20k on E30's, and mine at least, did not reach exquisite status at all. Whichever path you take, good luck! P.S. post up some pics of that E36 M3! I agree with MR E30 325is. Originally posted by wintershade Could you (or some others) elaborate a bit on what makes the 325iX more complex? Like specific systems that will be a lot harder to work on / access / cost more, etc? On build cost -- you're definitely right. I guess I should clarify $10-15K is what I'd like to get car to the point where car is running reasonably reliably and a normal person (like my wife) would look at/in the car and say "Nice antique, I wouldn't mind being seen publicly in that." From there, as money permits, it will be a slow bleed to make it "perfect" with custom re-upholstered interior, fresh paint job, etc. Does that seem reasonable? 325is or 325i over a 325ix. Steering rack and suspension is unique to the IX, not as many options. Also the transfer case is an expensive item if it goes. Think they run about $4K new. Also agree with his points about the budget. You can get an amazing car for 10-15 grand, but if you want to do a full paint job and full reupholstering you can easily spend 10-15K on just paint and reupholstering. A nicely done proper paint job will start at $6-7K. I recommend finding an really nice example 10-15K and holding a little back for some basic maintenance. At 10-15K you can find an amazing car with great looking paint and a nice interior. My old car had terrible paint and needed a little body work (battery box was rusting out). After looking into it, it was cheaper and easier to find a super clean car. I found a great car with awesome original paint and had it shipped from the West coast. Sometimes I wish I had redone my original car, but I don't like to cut corners so in the long run I think my wallet thanks me.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3065_3):
Going to echo Zeemz above. If you have the money, buy the nicest E30 you can find from the get go. Your wife will want to hop in immediately if you spend around 10k on one.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3065_4):
Go IS, if you lived in a cold climate maybe the IX resto would be worth it, but since you dont as the others have said its a pain and costs more for parts. I think $15k is actually a good budget, to do a pretty good restore as long as you are not doing an engine swap. $6-7 pain, $4k interior, $1k suspension, $3k misc, I think thats a pretty good almost new car if you do the labor (except paint)

ANSWER 9 (id: 3065_5):
Originally posted by Zeemz I recommend finding an really nice example 10-15K and holding a little back for some basic maintenance. At 10-15K you can find an amazing car with great looking paint and a nice interior. My old car had terrible paint and needed a little body work (battery box was rusting out). After looking into it, it was cheaper and easier to find a super clean car. I found a great car with awesome original paint and had it shipped from the West coast. Sometimes I wish I had redone my original car, but I don't like to cut corners so in the long run I think my wallet thanks me. The transfercase is actually a lot less than that - about $1200 last I looked, but it fluctuates a bit. However, they rarely actually go bad when maintained, but if you are buying a 25 year old car you never really know what you'll get. Still, unless you really want the ix, a RWD E30 is going to be a lot simpler and cheaper overall to mod and restore. Suspension isn't really an issue but unless you're willing to go to extreme measures, the M20 is what you're stuck with (at least now the M20 has some good options though).

ANSWER 10 (id: 3065_6):
I did a 325ix almost two years ago and the lackluster steering made me sell it (e30 awd runs very little caster) http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=371679

ANSWER 11 (id: 3065_7):
Originally posted by nando The transfercase is actually a lot less than that - about $1200 last I looked, but it fluctuates a bit. However, they rarely actually go bad when maintained, but if you are buying a 25 year old car you never really know what you'll get. For some reason I thought they were going for a lot more. Just looked it up they are going for around $1900 now.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3065_8):
Originally posted by Staszek Go IS, if you lived in a cold climate maybe the IX resto would be worth it, but since you don't as the others have said its a pain and costs more for parts. Thanks. While I'm currently in San Francisco, there is a high probability that my wife and I will eventually relocate back to New England within the next few years, so snow-going capabilities are a definite plus longer term. I think I could live with knowing that I may have to drop $2K on a new transfer case at some point over the renewed life of the car. My bigger concern is if certain iX specific parts are damn-near impossible to find, or certain fairly common repair jobs become substantially more difficult, etc.

ANSWER 13 (id: 3065_9):
Originally posted by wintershade Thanks. While I'm currently in San Francisco, there is a high probability that my wife and I will eventually relocate back to New England within the next few years, so snow-going capabilities are a definite plus longer term. I think I could live with knowing that I may have to drop $2K on a new transfer case at some point over the renewed life of the car. My bigger concern is if certain iX specific parts are damn-near impossible to find, or certain fairly common repair jobs become substantially more difficult, etc. i would NEVER drive any e30 in the winter salt. awd or not. buy a piece of shit lesbaru for that. if you are gonna restomod, buy a rwd car. period. this is coming from a guy with 3 ix's in the back yard. as already mentioned above, awd e30's are too complicated, too fragile, and the parts are too expensive for what you want to do.