QUESTION ID: 1491

QUESTION:
6ocRALLYSPORT GC Subaru Racing Abrasion Resistant Polycarbonate Rear Windows (PAIR) - Impreza 93-01 Coupe http://www.hardmotorsport.com/cae-adjustable-selector-rod-dssr-bmw/ 6OVRCRST Polycarbonate Rear Windows Subaru Impreza Coupe High quality abrasion resistant polycarbonate rear windows for your rally car! Wish I had known about this, I would have used it instead of having mine extended and welded. Which Im sure is fine, but still... Just passing this along.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1491_0):
personally I'd rather have something that is fixed in this case, rather than adjustable - you wouldn't want it to come loose or something. it's not exactly easy to get to, and it's not like you really need to adjust it more than once. looks like a nice product though.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1491_1):
I hear what you're saying, but that type of clamp is fairly common in the auto industry. Hell, our tie rods use it. A little locktite and I'd doubt that bolt is going anywhere.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1491_11):
Originally posted by AndrewBird What is the point of this? Why would you want it adjustable? I would assume to compensate for the differences in non stock engine and transmission combinations.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1491_12):
We sell a lot of these along with the CAE Ultra Shifter. We use it in our own S54'd E36 and E46M3 and it has never come loose. I can't even think of a case where this has happened. In your average street car, the adjustability is not necessary. In a custom track-built race chassis sometimes having the option to "reposition" the placement of the shifter to best suit the driver position is desired. When you're using an extended shifter like the CAE, it's best to get the knob positioned in such a way that suits your personal quirks and preferences. Hey, race drivers are pretty particular about such things. (HARD Motorsport GM)

ANSWER 5 (id: 1491_2):
the issue is that the selector rod has to take torsion. a tie rod only has to take tension and compression, which is why that joint works fine. I don't know if it's threaded but I hope not. It looked like a compression joint, but it could still slip and move. Maybe it has holes or something to lock it in place. I do like that it comes with the selector rod joint though.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1491_5):
Originally posted by Kershaw I hear what you're saying, but that type of clamp is fairly common in the auto industry. Hell, our tie rods use it. A little locktite and I'd doubt that bolt is going anywhere. I don't see any indication that either the OD of the male part or the ID of the female part are threaded. It looks like a smooth slip fit held by the clamp. Yes, that clamp will hold all the tension and torque spindly little human arms are capable of generating.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1491_7):
well I don't know about you but I can put a lot of torque on something with one hand especially with a 12:1 leverage ratio. ;) it might be OK but it's not something I would personally want in my car, it's such a pain in the ass to get to if it ever did slip or come loose. it's not difficult to have it modified and it's about the same price, so why bother?