QUESTION ID: 2164

QUESTION:
So I’ve been emailing back and forth with Borbet about acquiring some Type A wheels. Since I can’t buy them new in the US it seems my only option is to buy used which people want way to much for, or buy directly from Borbet. Has anyone had any experience buying from German companies? Borbet wants €156 per wheel + freight cost, and requires payment to be through bank transfer. The bank transfer thing seems a little out of the ordinary. If anyone has similar experience to this it would be great you can point me in the right direction. If freight doesn’t hit me too hard on cost, it’s we’ll worth buying directly from Germany.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2164_3):
I have used Wise (used to be Transferwise) for sending money to Europe. It's much cheaper than anything else I have found. It's the same as a Bank Transfer.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2164_5):
check with performance alloys in ireland. pricing was a touch higher but the shipping was less for all four than i could ship for even one from anywhere else. they have A's. i grabbed ronals through them.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2164_6):
Originally posted by 82eye check with performance alloys in ireland. pricing was a touch higher but the shipping was less for all four than i could ship for even one from anywhere else. they have A's. i grabbed ronals through them. thanks for this info. Priced it all out on their website and it was not a bad price at all. Still waiting to hear back from borbet to compare.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2164_7):
Originally posted by cgk_iii thanks for this info. Priced it all out on their website and it was not a bad price at all. Still waiting to hear back from borbet to compare. make sure to get shipping quotes from both. it was the shipping that made the difference. it's cheaper coming out of ireland cause of the major ports. you might want to check to make sure the borbets are german as well. borbet, ronal, and even bbs have been getting stuff manufactured in poland for a number of years. the majority of the wheels now come from there, even the ones sold in germany. a few are still manufactured in germany, and are usually thought to be higher quality.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2164_8):
Update: ended up ordering from performancealloys.com customer service was amazing and the shipping cost was way less than ordering direct from borbet. Thanks for all the info

ANSWER 6 (id: 2164_9):
Originally posted by cgk_iii Update: ended up ordering from performancealloys.com customer service was amazing and the shipping cost was way less than ordering direct from borbet. Thanks for all the info i'm jealous. the borbets are ways easier to take care of lol.