QUESTION ID: 2534

QUESTION:
Parked next to an F30 sedan while getting lunch at work one day and noticed the stark contrast in outward visibility between the F30 and E30. Made the following visual to highlight the difference. F30 windows are be a lot higher and vertically narrower, making parking and reversing harder, especially in tight spaces.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2534_0):
The real problem that creates this problem is just in frame to the right. Also examine the side mirror to rear quarter relationship and the trunk height.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2534_1):
I have an e92 as well as my e30, and the visibility is good. Sure - it doesn't have the super thin A-pillars of the e30, but it's not bad. Generally though, the visibility out of modern cars is terrible. My wife's Hyundai is bad, and try driving a new Mazda 3 hatch! BMW still do a good job of balancing safety and visibility. I agree with rogue toaster though - I nearly get mowed down all the time in either my e30 or e92 by giant SUVs where my roof is lower than the side window sill - especially if they have a lift kit.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2534_10):
Originally posted by 2mAn Thats a 3-series next to the E30??? I thought that was a 7-series... damn porkers That's no 3-series, it's a space station..

ANSWER 4 (id: 2534_11):
Originally posted by varg May as well, I'm already not ever going to be interest in buying one so it's not like having a god-awful interior with the worst interface known to mankind is going to ruin it for me. Seriously, touch screens a control interface in cars is the worst idea to hit the car world since putting low profile tires on trucks. I think we will be eventually just plugging a cord into the back of our heads - or will our brains be hooked up wirelessly?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2534_12):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i I have an e92 as well as my e30, and the visibility is good. Sure - it doesn't have the super thin A-pillars of the e30, but it's not bad. Generally though, the visibility out of modern cars is terrible. My wife's Hyundai is bad, and try driving a new Mazda 3 hatch! BMW still do a good job of balancing safety and visibility. I agree with rogue toaster though - I nearly get mowed down all the time in either my e30 or e92 by giant SUVs where my roof is lower than the side window sill - especially if they have a lift kit. First time driving my e30 after lowering and manual swap I almost got run off the road by a rape van who couldn't space themselves correctly in traffic.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2534_13):
Lol I was literally just complaining about this to my wife (who rolled her eyes). I've had a hyundai rental for a few days while doing some repairs on the daily. First drive onto the highway I nearly sideswiped someone because the blind spot/side visibility is so bad!!! I also now realized why all these new cars have the backup camera and lights/alarms when someone's in your blind spot - because without that stuff you can't see shit! It's unbelieveable. That and the crap throttle response - now I understand why when one of these cars merges in front of you it takes ages for them to accelerate - because the damn car takes 15s to think about what to do! I mean I get it, some of this loss in visibility is due to thicker A-pillar etc which improves vehicle safety. But still. I find that to be no excuse for shitty mirror coverage and general rear visibility.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2534_2):
My mom has a newer Jetta. I always thought back up cameras were a ridiculous idea, mainly for people who don't know how to drive, and therefore have trouble backing up their cars without hitting anything. Then I drove my mom's car once, and had to reverse it out of the garage. Backup cameras are now mandatory equipment on new cars, and it's obvious now why that is - they're impossible to see out of.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2534_3):
Originally posted by roguetoaster The real problem that creates this problem is just in frame to the right. Also examine the side mirror to rear quarter relationship and the trunk height. If you're referring to the black frame that surrounds the rear glass (not sure if you are), then yes, that's one of the contributors. Can't remember if that black frame surrounds the side windows, but I know on modern cars its on the front and back. The main thing for the rear though is the trunk height. Sure it gives extra cargo space, but I prefer extra glass. I notice that this trend of shrinking rear visibility began on the 3 series with the E36. Back then it was probably due to the new Z-axle suspension that they used. I did not notice the side mirror and trunk height thing. My eyes normally fixate on the windows. Good eye! Originally posted by lukeADE335i I have an e92 as well as my e30, and the visibility is good. Sure - it doesn't have the super thin A-pillars of the e30, but it's not bad. Generally though, the visibility out of modern cars is terrible. My wife's Hyundai is bad, and try driving a new Mazda 3 hatch! BMW still do a good job of balancing safety and visibility. If parking worries you, get the one with the 360 camera :) I have an E46, and the front visibility is good, the side visibility is okay and the rear visibility is bad but not terrible. The main thing that concerns me with 360 cameras on cars is the long-term (20-30 year) reliability/durability and ease of maintenance of such a system. With all of the other complicated electronics that are integrated into modern cars (especially modern German cars), I am concerned that I will have to shell out thousands to repair things like the rear view camera just to be able to easily see out of my car again if it ever breaks. This is one of the reasons I brought an E30; less of "oh we'll use electronics to fix this issue created by government regulations" and also less government regulations to deal with in general. That and the E30 is the smallest BMW that has all of the essential creature comforts (AC, heat, power steering, power windows, automatic transmission, torquey I6 engine); just the perfect balance of tech while feeling mostly analog. I agree with you though that BMW is one of the better manufacturers when it comes to balancing safety and visibility.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2534_4):
No, the item I was referring to is the truck next to the E30. Also, E36 rear vis has nothing to do with rear suspension, and everything to do with exterior design choices.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2534_6):
My F31 is monstrous compared to my E30. The F31 weighs 1200 pounds more. The back of the F31 is nearly impossible to see out of without the backup camera. The funny and sad part is the interior of the E30 trunk is actually wider due to the lack of excessive interior panels. I can fit my E-Z up 10x10 tent across the trunk of my E30. I cannot fit in across the trunk of the F31. I actually have to fold down a rear seat in the F31 to make it fit.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2534_9):
Originally posted by packratbimmer It doesn't really matter because everyone is looking at a screen anyway. Just mount a laptop on the dash like a Tesla. May as well, I'm already not ever going to be interest in buying one so it's not like having a god-awful interior with the worst interface known to mankind is going to ruin it for me. Seriously, touch screens a control interface in cars is the worst idea to hit the car world since putting low profile tires on trucks.