QUESTION ID: 938

QUESTION:
Im doing an obd2 s52 swap into my e30. There is a white relay on the passenger side in the engine harness. I don't remember where it came from, either the compartment where the dme was or somewhere by the secondary air pump. It does have the 12+ power wire running from it all the way across engine to the secondary air pump relay though. I think it may be the unloader relay? X6326? Do I need this for my swap to work? or does the car just use the unloader relay in the e30 fusebox? **Also there is a ground wire with a lug coming out of the secondary air pump loom. Is this ground wire needed or was this part of the secondary air pump circuit? its on the passenger side as well. attached a pic

ANSWER 1 (id: 938_0):
Yes, that stand alone relay that hangs out by the DME is the unloader relay (green). You will keep this. There are the other three that will be out on the other end of the harness- one for the fuel pump (green), DME (green) and SAP (not green..forget what color it was, purple?) which can be deleted by tracing the wires back to the SAP plug etc ETM is your BFF for ODB2.

ANSWER 2 (id: 938_1):
Ah shit! didn't know you were in Greenville, SC! Lived down there in 2013-2015....well in that case PM me if you need any help- just went down this rodeo a few months back.

ANSWER 3 (id: 938_2):
Originally posted by Klug Ah shit! didn't know you were in Greenville, SC! Lived down there in 2013-2015....well in that case PM me if you need any help- just went down this rodeo a few months back. Dang too bad you still don't live here. Wouldn't mind a second eye on the wiring. Ill probably be pming you about a few things. As far as the unloader relay, I did find it in the ETM before you responded. I am pretty good with the ETM but since I had no clue what it was it was hard to find the relay number. Thanks again, your car looks good

ANSWER 4 (id: 938_3):
No problem dude- Here is my pinout, as you probably already notice- there are a bunch of different pinouts there- and they all differ in some way. Here is mine from a '98 Manual E36 S52 and a '92 E30 Auto Vert. Can tell you it is all correct minus the MPG/Economy gauge- I'm having some wonky issues with it...I don't think it is pinned incorrectly but something else. Also good call on keeping ODB2- INPA is great, but RomRaider is even better for logs and diagnosis.

ANSWER 5 (id: 938_4):
Thanks! mine is all running good actually, next is bleeding brakes/coolant/clutch and the dreaded fabing exhaust. I have s52 headers, still figuring out the route