QUESTION ID: 2408

QUESTION:
I've been replacing all of the dried out and cracking rubber on the doors where it comes into contact with the windows. Stuff I should have bought when I priced it all a few years ago. The price increases are crazy! But that's not what this post is about... Most pieces are pretty easy to replace, with the exception of the long strip that goes between the door card and the glass. If I put the weatherstrip on first, I can't get the door card on all of the hooks along the top. When I put the door card on first, I can't seem to get the weatherstrip to sit in the channel straight. Any tips would be appreciated! Ignore the cardinal red door card and tan seat. New cardinal red seat leather is on order! Black with red I think will look sharp.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2408_0):
On my vert, found it easier to put the inner weatherstrip on first and then the door card. Make sure your clips for the weatherstrip are on the right way. Because the weatherstrip is new, it will feel like the card won’t fit. There’s a trick to hooking the card on the door hangers - need to offer the card up slightly above the hangers and push the door card against the weatherstrip and then push the card down until it locates on the hangers. Don’t be to heavy handed as you can crack the top edge of the door card A

ANSWER 2 (id: 2408_1):
Originally posted by Tzantushka On my vert, found it easier to put the inner weatherstrip on first and then the door card. Make sure your clips for the weatherstrip are on the right way. Because the weatherstrip is new, it will feel like the card won’t fit. There’s a trick to hooking the card on the door hangers - need to offer the card up slightly above the hangers and push the door card against the weatherstrip and then push the card down until it locates on the hangers. Don’t be to heavy handed as you can crack the top edge of the door card A Oh man, that totally makes sense! I kept trying to push the weatherstrip down with the door card and it just wouldn't cooperate.