QUESTION ID: 903

QUESTION:
Hey guys, I have a Mishimoto 16" fan that I want to use as a pusher fan, replacing the factory auxiliary fan. My question is, how are the temps with only the mishimoto fan running? Mind you that I live in a climate where the average temperature is around 32 degrees Celcius. All the help is much appreciated THX :) P.S. using a radiator from an E36

ANSWER 1 (id: 903_0):
I have a 16" Mishimoto on a switch, keeps it cool but vibrates the car like hell. It kicks on just under half and keeps the needle there per Dave Markert's fan wiring thread on here. Would love to visit Padang Padang or Uluwatu sometime. Good luck.

ANSWER 2 (id: 903_1):
Originally posted by bradmer I have a 16" Mishimoto on a switch, keeps it cool but vibrates the car like hell. It kicks on just under half and keeps the needle there per Dave Markert's fan wiring thread on here. Would love to visit Padang Padang or Uluwatu sometime. Good luck. did you use the FAE temp switch from pelican parts like he did in that thread?

ANSWER 3 (id: 903_2):
Originally posted by mitchlikesbikes did you use the FAE temp switch from pelican parts like he did in that thread? Yes, I did. Markert's fan thread is money. I was trying to over think it with a manual switch for the fan, but due to the referee at the BAR station (smog) that got denied and I had to run it like it says in his thread. Which makes wayyy more sense. Good luck

ANSWER 4 (id: 903_3):
Originally posted by bradmer I have a 16" Mishimoto on a switch, keeps it cool but vibrates the car like hell. It kicks on just under half and keeps the needle there per Dave Markert's fan wiring thread on here. Would love to visit Padang Padang or Uluwatu sometime. Good luck. Is it a pusher or a puller setup? and how are the temps on a hot sunny day? Also, thx for the nice comment there. You should definitely visit here sometimes, we have great cuisine (or some may say) :D

ANSWER 5 (id: 903_4):
Originally posted by alifsyz Is it a pusher or a puller setup? and how are the temps on a hot sunny day? Also, thx for the nice comment there. You should definitely visit here sometimes, we have great cuisine (or some may say) :D It's the pusher fan, always kicks in under the halfway mark when sitting in traffic and keeps it cool. Follow the advice in his fan thread and you're set to go. And hell yeah, great food after killer surf in warm water is the best. One day...