QUESTION ID: 436
TOPIC: speaker_upgrade

QUESTION:
I bought a new Blaupunkt Frankfurt 82 for the retro look in the dash of my e30, but Im having volume issues.. I can crank this thing up to full volume and still not hear the music with the windows open on the highway.. Im running stock sound system speakers wired directly to the HU. This car didnt Have top hifi but I put those speakers in from another e30. Ive had pioneer, Sony, and other radios hooked up to stock bmw speakers with much better results than this.. I know the speakers are old and arent great, but I should still be able to push more volume through them with this thing, seeing how it was something like 500.00. I reached out to blaupunkt and told them the radio sucks and they just said it was fine, nothing wrong with the volume, asked me 17 times if I had my aux input level settings wrong NO.. I can use the iPod interface with my phone (there is no volume setting for that) OR mp3 files off a usb stick, and the volume is significantly lower than just playing FM radio.. but the FM radio honestly isnt great either is anyone else using this HU?

ANSWER 1 (id: 436_0):
I don't blame you for being disappointed! That's a nice stereo & should definitely push out more sound than you are experiencing. I haven't used this exact head unit but have had issues mixing & matching various HU's with the stock speakers. My stock Fader wheel above the radio seems to be a sore spot & I really just need to delete it. Fiddling with that sometimes helps the sound come thru more clearly. Have you double checked all the wire connections in the back of the unit? A buddy highly recommended replacing the stock speaker wires as well. I haven't gotten around to it. After the stock wiring & speakers, the next upgrade would be an amplifier and/or pre-amp volume adjustment.

ANSWER 2 (id: 436_1):
I have that same head unit, and very happy with it so far. First thing I did was run new speaker wire to each speaker (except for the door tweeter, which was too hard to pull through the door jams). The original speaker wiring is odd with the negatives being wired to chassis ground. That might cause some interference/issues with the head unit's amp, though it should affect all input sources. That said, I agree the radio isn't very good, but 99.9% of the time I listen through Bluetooth. [edit: This bugged me, so I dug deeper last night and found out the antenna cable was severely frayed. Fixed that, and radio works great now] One thing I love about that head unit is the analog steering wheel control inputs. Since I do not use cruise control, but have the stalk installed, I rewired it to control volume +/- and track skip. Just had to wire some resistors into the connection under the steering wheel. (Happy to do a build thread if anyone is interested)

ANSWER 3 (id: 436_2):
I have the same head unit and I messed with some of the settings and it started working a lot better. I recommend you use Chat GPT enter the head unit and car details and have it walk you through setting up the appropriate levels. im having an issue with FM radio though its not getting any reception. I just get an audible click not sure how to move forward. one other thing is the antenna always goes up ? Even in Bluetooth. Not sure if its user error still.