QUESTION ID: 9

QUESTION:
Hey guys, I was wondering if "MotoMeter" band cluster parts are interchangeable with "VDO" brand cluster parts. I ask because I just got sent a speedo from a MotoMeter cluster, but I need to install it into a VDO cluster. Should I send it back and ask for a VDO speedo? Thanks -Jordan

ANSWER 1 (id: 9_10):
BMW engineers developed the cluster so that incompatible parts cannot be plugged into each other. They are "keyed" It would be impossible to plug an old speedo into a new speedo socket or old SI board into new SI board slot, etc. Thanks for the clarification Nando, I was close.

ANSWER 2 (id: 9_11):
So if i wanted to swap a cluster into in my 88 325is i need to get one from a 86+ m20b25 model car? one from a 91 318is wouldnt work accurately? edit: could i swap the coding plug on the front of the board from my cluster to the 318 cluster for accurate speedo/tach readings?

ANSWER 3 (id: 9_2):
:stupid: Nope VDO and Motometer parts are NOT interchangeable. VDO and Motometer clusters are however interchangeable with each other. So if you can I would try to send it back and get a VDO.

ANSWER 4 (id: 9_4):
So much misinformation in here its sad really. YOU ARE ALL WRONG. First look at the front of the cluster, do you have 1 or 3 RED S.I lights? If you have 3, then all parts from all 84 - 03/86 VDO/Motometer clusters will interchange with each other. If you have 1 (04/86 - 1992) then all VDO/Motometer parts will interchange with each other. The earlier ones use different S.I Boards, Motherboards, and Speedo/MPG/Tach gauges then the newer one, which also has parts that you cannot change with the older ones. The Early versions also had the Tach coding plug on the rear of the tach, while the newer spec had the plug on the front of the cluster itself. VDO/Motometer were two suppliers built to BMW spec on how to make the cluster. I've rebuilt easily over 10 of these clusters, including converting them for the M3 Oil Temp, Speedo, Tach. This includes recalibration of the gauge itself, and trust me the parts can interchange. End of story.

ANSWER 5 (id: 9_6):
Originally posted by James Crivellone So much misinformation in here its sad really. YOU ARE ALL WRONG. First look at the front of the cluster, do you have 1 or 3 RED S.I lights? If you have 3, then all parts from all 84 - 03/86 VDO/Motometer clusters will interchange with each other. If you have 1 (04/86 - 1992) then all VDO/Motometer parts will interchange with each other. The earlier ones use different S.I Boards, Motherboards, and Speedo/MPG/Tach gauges then the newer one, which also has parts that you cannot change with the older ones. The Early versions also had the Tach coding plug on the rear of the tach, while the newer spec had the plug on the front of the cluster itself. VDO/Motometer were two suppliers built to BMW spec on how to make the cluster. I've rebuilt easily over 10 of these clusters, including converting them for the M3 Oil Temp, Speedo, Tach. This includes recalibration of the gauge itself, and trust me the parts can interchange. End of story. So does not matter what motor M20, M10, M44, etc.. Just want to confirm the omission of mentioning it was purposeful.

ANSWER 6 (id: 9_7):
There are only two e30 clusters. White back and blue back. White back are earlier build, pre-1986, coding chip on rear, made by VDO or motometer. Blue back are later build post-1986, coding chip in front, made by VDO or motometer. Parts are not interchangeable between blue and white clusters except gas and temp gauge. Parts are interchangeable between each cluster type. ie. white to white parts, blue to blue parts. Motor will determine which coding chip will be plugged into cluster for tach accuracy. Speedo constant factor (K=xxxx) written on lower half of speedo determines which vehicle speed sensor needs to be paired with the cluster for accurate traveling speed.

ANSWER 7 (id: 9_8):
Originally posted by Gregs///M There are only two e30 clusters. White back and blue back. White back are earlier build, pre-1986, coding chip on rear, made by VDO or motometer. Blue back are later build post-1986, coding chip in front, made by VDO or motometer. I have in my hands a white backed cluster with the coding chip in front...so I guess there may be 3...or more.

ANSWER 8 (id: 9_9):
Originally posted by Gregs///M Speedo constant factor (K=xxxx) written on lower half of speedo determines which vehicle speed sensor needs to be paired with the cluster for accurate traveling speed. the speed sensors are all basically the same, they are only different depending on how deep they need to be to read off the 9 tooth ring (there are a few different sized rings, all 9 tooth, depending on what kind of diff you have). the difference in K factors is due to differences in tire sizes, not differences in VSS sensors.