QUESTION ID: 2973

QUESTION:
Hi guys! I am new to the forum and glad to be here. I have wanted to get back into an e30 for at least 10 years, but fell into the trap of collecting the latest, greatest and shiny modern stuff. I am now starting the search for an i/is and need some guidance. I have owned numerous e30's in the past including an AW 1990 M3 that I purchased new. I wish I held onto that one among a few others. Ideally, I would like a clean 964, but that is not in the budget for a PT fun car. I am looking for a turnkey driver that I will drive a couple times a month and possibly a future DE car. Is the original M20 better or should I also consider one with an M50 transplant? How much should I budget to find one that is clean and does not need work to enjoy? Cosmetically needs to be very nice, but I understand these cars are almost 30 years old. I appreciate the help!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2973_1):
Originally posted by Cerberus Is the original M20 better or should I also consider one with an M50 transplant? The M50 while being an improvement on the M20 is technically a better engine, is not a worthwhile upgrade considering the time and cost involved to convert. If it's been done, and done well it might be worthwhile. Originally posted by Cerberus How much should I budget to find one that is clean and does not need work to enjoy? Cosmetically needs to be very nice, but I understand these cars are almost 30 years old. I agree with above. 10-20k sounds about right. Most cars that are all original are asking 20+, but with time I'm sure you can find something that suits your needs.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2973_2):
Values are definitely higher than they were 10 years ago. I am not in a rush and want to find the right one based on condition and of course price. I have other cars to keep me entertained for now, so I am patient. Thanks for the input!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2973_3):
After a few months of looking myself I have not been able to find any nice late models under 6K. Rust free, all matching vin body panel, original paint, no surprise cars are 10k plus any day. The market has changed much from 10 years ago when i got my first e30.