QUESTION ID: 3364

QUESTION:
Earn 15% off by participating in our, first-ever, Garagistic Survey! We want to make any and every experience you have with Garagistic to be that of a pleasant one; we are constantly trying to improve and cater to the community. However, we could use your help! Participate in the brief survey below and the top 10 answers will be rewarded with 15% off your total order along with other e30 goodies! Visit our website at www.store.garagistic.com All participants will still receive a store-wide 10% off coupon. **Restrictions apply; discount cannot be used with an existing discount or on select items. Must be submitted before: 8/31/2016 Only Email responses will be eligible for discounts and must be submitted to Apex@garagistic.com WEBSITE USABILITY: (Please be as descriptive as possible) 1.) Out of 10, what would you rate our website? More importantly, what “issues” would you like us to look into or fix? 2.) What do you think of our mobile/tablet usability? Are you more likely to use your phone, desktop, or a tablet for a purchase? 3.) What features would you like to see added to the website? 4.) How could we make your website experience more “user-friendly”? 5.) Do you prefer PayPal or manually entering in a card or another payment option? 6.) Any other suggestions or feedback that you have? Visit our website at www.store.garagistic.com Also we wanted to let everyone on our newsletter know there is a newsletter going out early next week about: -Preorder of LS1 mounts -Plug an play rpm coding plugs -Obc modules -Diff stud kits -Preorder Boosterless plumbing kit -Preorder Brass Guide Bushing Set! Visit our website at www.store.garagistic.com

ANSWER 1 (id: 3364_0):
1- 8.5/10 I think there is alot going on in the UI. the browser loads up things one after the other. once every thing is loaded, it does looks good. Oh, and i think the top part is too big, like from the bar your number to the actual part, it take 2/3of my screen. 2- I would use the mobile website version if i got on there by a link, publicity or something. But then i'd browse around see what you got and come back to my computer to purchase. 3- I think you need to get parts from other companies too. I've been looking for a portal of all e30 parts for a while. Jegs for bmw of some sorts. 4- I've only used your website on computer. 5- I don't buy from companies that don't have paypall setup, even if i usually pay without it. just seems sketchy. 6- If you have good contact for megasquirt, PM pleeaasee.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3364_1):
Originally posted by LeMinouCool 1- 8.5/10 I think there is alot going on in the UI. the browser loads up things one after the other. once every thing is loaded, it does looks good. Oh, and i think the top part is too big, like from the bar your number to the actual part, it take 2/3of my screen. 2- I would use the mobile website version if i got on there by a link, publicity or something. But then i'd browse around see what you got and come back to my computer to purchase. 3- I think you need to get parts from other companies too. I've been looking for a portal of all e30 parts for a while. Jegs for bmw of some sorts. 4- I've only used your website on computer. 5- I don't buy from companies that don't have paypall setup, even if i usually pay without it. just seems sketchy. 6- If you have good contact for megasquirt, PM pleeaasee. Ahem. "Only Email responses will be eligible for discounts and must be submitted to Apex@garagistic.com"

ANSWER 3 (id: 3364_10):
Originally posted by b-rad Sent Originally posted by IronJoe Submitted, very cool idea for a promotion :) I think it's great when companies take feedback from customers like this. Thank you guys. Its the only way we will know how to improve to better serve the community.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3364_4):
I've been wanting to ask you, since you have good fabrication machinery and skill, is it possible for you to come up with some good m20 headers because that is one of the item that has been lacking in the community. I mean a quality item like the Racing Dynamics headers. I find the RD headers very well fabbed but you can't get them anywhere or other headers of that quality.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3364_8):
Originally posted by 0-60 freak finish you design and production of the e30 adjustable front control arms for caster/ camber adjustments Almost done! Originally posted by gath I've been wanting to ask you, since you have good fabrication machinery and skill, is it possible for you to come up with some good m20 headers because that is one of the item that has been lacking in the community. I mean a quality item like the Racing Dynamics headers. I find the RD headers very well fabbed but you can't get them anywhere or other headers of that quality. Originally posted by ZodGilla +1 for decent headers Originally posted by supermansocks95 Another +1 for headers. Supersprints are ridiculously expensive and I'd like to see something a little cheaper but still good quality. Thank you for the suggestions guys. We will look into that. Originally posted by ba114 I'd be buying from you if international postage was more reasonable. $60+ to ship a trans swap brace, aluminium cups and a sticker is excessive. Our shipping calculator defaults to full insurance and USPS priority and can get a little out of hand some times. We will pm you directly, as we can usually do alot better then that. But we only know if you guys reach out, so please do! Thanks! Originally posted by Heitzke Submitted a way too verbose response with a lot of suggestions. I can't help it though, this is what I do for a living, sooo Thank you!!!