QUESTION ID: 2699

QUESTION:
This is a good read just released and with lots of pretty photos: Our 1982–94 BMW E30 3 Series Buyer’s Guide My initial reaction:"you'll pay around $10k for a modest four-cylinder or six-cylinder driver-quality sedan with an automatic transmission" I beg to differ. That's about double what I've seen lately. They explain the model suffixes for i, e, es, is, or ix, but show a pic of a td. Is that a Turbo Diesel? "In 1988 the bumpers were shortened before being completely replaced by plastic for 1989." I was not aware of this. Was that in the US models?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2699_0):
I just saw that too! ... some errors, but I let it slide. The bumper "change" in 88 was shorter shocks, bumpers are the same, but the effect was a slightly tucked look

ANSWER 2 (id: 2699_10):
Originally posted by kickinindian I mean this should really help for insurance tho right? Like in case of a total loss you would have a better chance of a better payout I would assume Sent from my Pixel 3 using Tapatalk I have an agreed-value policy with Hagerty, so, from what I understand, they'll pay out that value if the car gets totaled. They won't write you a policy if you declare something crazy like $100k for a '90 325is. I think I've set mine at $22k, so if the values continue to climb, I will need to up that.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2699_11):
Originally posted by Aleman I have an agreed-value policy with Hagerty, so, from what I understand, they'll pay out that value if the car gets totaled. They won't write you a policy if you declare something crazy like $100k for a '90 325is. I think I've set mine at $22k, so if the values continue to climb, I will need to up that. I have an agreed value policy with State Farm. It's set for $15k. "From what I understand" is completely right. On paper it sounds like I get $15k if, God Forbid, anything happens. But talking to the agent made me more confused. Like I'd only get market value. If I got a check for 3 grand you'd see a mushroom cloud form over the SW region of the US. I'll be making a trip to my SF office this weekend.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2699_12):
Originally posted by laidback93 I have an agreed value policy with State Farm. It's set for $15k. "From what I understand" is completely right. On paper it sounds like I get $15k if, God Forbid, anything happens. But talking to the agent made me more confused. Like I'd only get market value. If I got a check for 3 grand you'd see a mushroom cloud form over the SW region of the US. I'll be making a trip to my SF office this weekend. Agreed value on a collector car policy is just that. They will pay the agreed value in the case of a total loss. Agreed Value on a standard auto policy typically means actual market value up to the agreed value. The coverage is designed to allow a customer to insure a vehicle for less than market value. Usually fleet customers who buy vehicles at a big discount. Lots of agents don't understand how it works. If you read your policy it will be spelled out though in the Comprehensive and Collision section.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2699_13):
Originally posted by Poorhouse Agreed value on a collector car policy is just that. They will pay the agreed value in the case of a total loss. Agreed Value on a standard auto policy typically means actual market value up to the agreed value. The coverage is designed to allow a customer to insure a vehicle for less than market value. Usually fleet customers who buy vehicles at a big discount. Lots of agents don't understand how it works. If you read your policy it will be spelled out though in the Comprehensive and Collision section. I just reviewed my policy again and I'm 99% sure that I'm covered to my agree upon value. It's listed under my endorsement as: 6171CJ - ANTIQUE OR CLASSIC MOTOR VEHICLE (AGREED VALUE) w/ $15K listed on the first page of my declarations.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2699_5):
Originally posted by Aleman My initial reaction:"you'll pay around $10k for a modest four-cylinder or six-cylinder driver-quality sedan with an automatic transmission" I beg to differ. That's about double what I've seen lately. Meh, that's not far off. That white '89i, auto, coupe with over 100k miles just sold for about $10k. I would bet that car was running on all its original bushings too.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2699_7):
And I thought Bat commenters were a little wacky. Sheesh! I don't know what the hell that guy that supposedly worked at BMW in the 80s was saying. Nice little write up though.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2699_8):
I mean this should really help for insurance tho right? Like in case of a total loss you would have a better chance of a better payout I would assume Sent from my Pixel 3 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 9 (id: 2699_9):
Originally posted by kickinindian I mean this should really help for insurance tho right? Like in case of a total loss you would have a better chance of a better payout I would assume Sent from my Pixel 3 using Tapatalk Good point. It should help.