QUESTION ID: 388

QUESTION:
a. Which way does the control arm go into the treehouse bushings? Through the "larger" opening with urethane exposed or smaller with the metal around it? b. The BMW endlinks supplied with eibach sways are for the rear, correct? Is there a DIY for either?

ANSWER 1 (id: 388_1):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat There is only one way that the control arm bushings can bolt onto the car, so you can't really install them backwards. Bro, this is r3v, lets not get ahead of ourselves. But yea, unless you have an air hammer and a dremel, they're only going on one way. Look under your car. -Charlie

ANSWER 2 (id: 388_11):
Originally posted by 808BMW Originally posted by kencopperwheat You can't use a press to remove the old CABs from the control arm. Umm, okay... So what can you use? :roll: Acutally you could probably use one if you hung the CA down from the bottom and used something skinny to push the CA through. You can usually pull the old rubber ones off with some twisting and muscle though. You usually use a press to put the new OE bushings into the brackets (and to get them out). The THR CABs will just slide on and off of the CAs with ease though.

ANSWER 3 (id: 388_12):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat You can usually pull the old rubber ones off with some twisting and muscle though. The THR CABs will just slide on and off of the CAs with ease though. Well mine come absolutely nowhere close to twisting, and I've been trying my hardest. I have THR CAB's waiting to go on, i just need to get these off. I'm grabbing some PB though, because my house is clean out of anything remotely resembling a cleaner spray, it'll probably twist once I get it cleaned up.

ANSWER 4 (id: 388_13):
Originally posted by 808BMW Originally posted by kencopperwheat You can't use a press to remove the old CABs from the control arm. Umm, okay... So what can you use? :roll: a torch.

ANSWER 5 (id: 388_2):
Originally posted by Charlie Originally posted by kencopperwheat There is only one way that the control arm bushings can bolt onto the car, so you can't really install them backwards. Bro, this is r3v, lets not get ahead of ourselves. -Charlie yea..im sure a BFH can get them on the wrong, oops i mean r3v, way.

ANSWER 6 (id: 388_3):
On a side note, this weekend I accidently slipped my OE cabs onto the wrong control arms. It was a bitch and a half to get one of them off after it sat for about 15 minutes on the end of the CA.

ANSWER 7 (id: 388_4):
Do you have a picture of the swaybar links? If they're the bone-looking ones with the rubber bushing at each end, then they're for the rear. If it has a ball joint then it's for the front. The Bentley will tell you how to install both.

ANSWER 8 (id: 388_5):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Do you have a picture of the swaybar links? If they're the bone-looking ones with the rubber bushing at each end, then they're for the rear. If it has a ball joint then it's for the front. The Bentley will tell you how to install both. Yes, bone looking things they are :) I am getting adj links for the front to be attached to the strut housings, I just wanted to see if I need to get smth new for the rear. Thanks! I have a friend who likes to use a BFH, I'll see if I can keep him away during the install.

ANSWER 9 (id: 388_6):
look, you cant install the bushings the wrong way. You can also slide them on/off with your pinky finger, so it wont matter if you happen to mess up the first time.

ANSWER 10 (id: 388_7):
Originally posted by Skafrog look, you cant install the bushings the wrong way. You can also slide them on/off with your pinky finger, so it wont matter if you happen to mess up the first time. I actually had a hell of a time getting one of mine to slide on...

ANSWER 11 (id: 388_8):
Originally posted by Skafrog look, you cant install the bushings the wrong way. You can also slide them on/off with your pinky finger, so it wont matter if you happen to mess up the first time. How do you get the old ones off without a press?