QUESTION ID: 267

QUESTION:
What else is recommended I replace when I putting new struts and springs on. Right now, my list consists of: -springs (OE H&R sports) -struts (Billy sports) -front control arm bushing (e36 m3) -upper rear strut mounts (new 92 vert) contemplating: -front upper strut bearings -tie rods -entire front lower control arm (w/ ball joints) thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 267_1):
Do al of that, including the "contemplating" stuff. If you really want camber plates, do them now. I get along fine without them, but they'd be nice sometimes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 267_2):
Originally posted by whiltebeitel Do al of that, including the "contemplating" stuff. If you really want camber plates, do them now. I get along fine without them, but they'd be nice sometimes. You can get by without replacin most wron bushing, but if he replaces springs!! It is easier to do all at once. I think when i do mine every wearable part is getting replaced, maybe even sway bar links?

ANSWER 3 (id: 267_3):
Originally posted by restoration You can get by without replacin most wron bushing, but if he replaces springs!! It is easier to do all at once. I think when i do mine every wearable part is getting replaced, maybe even sway bar links? You can do links later. You don't need the strut off or align the car after a swaybar link change, unlike tie rods and those bushings.

ANSWER 4 (id: 267_4):
Originally posted by whiltebeitel You can do links later. You don't need the strut off or align the car after a swaybar link change, unlike tie rods and those bushings. true, just easy while ur in there to rip em out

ANSWER 5 (id: 267_5):
Oh, and get quality parts, like genuine lemforder CA and AKG/powerflex/Treehouse/IE bushings. The quality in the rubber parts varies from maker to maker greatly.

ANSWER 6 (id: 267_6):
Originally posted by whiltebeitel Oh, and get quality parts, like genuine lemforder CA and AKG/powerflex/Treehouse/IE bushings. The quality in the rubber parts varies from maker to maker greatly. Agreed, most of the stuff I'll be getting will be OE BMW stuff or quality upgraded stuffz

ANSWER 7 (id: 267_8):
Originally posted by Intense = front upper strut bearings...I believe Yeah, and you should do these while you have the struts apart. They're not too expensive, all the cost of changing these out is in the labour and you'll already have your struts apart.