QUESTION ID: 3407

QUESTION:
For my cars, I keep my a binder for my trunk that I log work, keep receipts, and I also keep my insurance/registration in there as well. Anyone else? For one, I sometimes like to leave my windows down when I go into a store if I know I don't have anything valuable inside my car - and it just keeps everything in one place, neat and organized. Two, more to my question ......my theory is, that if I were to get pulled over he'll need me to get out to get get it - and the more time to have to interact with a cop, the less likely he'll just look at me as another ticket he's handing out to another name-less, face-less driver. Good idea or bad? Legal or not legal?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3407_1):
also, a cop that hears "i need to get out of my car and go dick around in the trunk to show you my registration" is going to go into high alert basically immediately

ANSWER 2 (id: 3407_10):
I would think getting out to open your trunk with a cop standing there may be a waiver of your privacy rights and an invitation to search without probable cause (at least your trunk). Not to say you have anything to hide, but....id keep it simple, especially these days.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3407_12):
In theory, I follow the idea. But the implementation of the idea is flawed. Not only do I have to actually get out of the car and walk my ass to the trunk (more work for me) to show an officer doing a traffic stop my credentials, I now have to pop the truck, while I am standing outside, dig through it and retrieve the paperwork he requested taking more of his time and my time and potentially aggravating him if he is already agitated. He is going to be on alert because I have to actually get out of the car initially and the paperwork isn't in it. And then he will be on alert while I pop the trunk. I could go on but it's a situation that no one really needs.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3407_13):
A copy of it stays in the trunk of my convertible. I have no glovebox. No choice, really. Additional fact: In the state of Ct, vehicles are sold by signing the reg if they're over 20 years old and have a current valid registration. I'm not leaving a legal document accessible to anyone who simply wants to slash my top and reach into a door card. It's never been a problem during a past stop, and I'll continue doing it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3407_3):
Originally posted by kronus also, a cop that hears "i need to get out of my car and go dick around in the trunk to show you my registration" is going to go into high alert basically immediately This... You pulled anything black that the cop may mistake it as a gun and you're dead. Hope you don't have a black folder.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3407_5):
Originally posted by kronus also, a cop that hears "i need to get out of my car and go dick around in the trunk to show you my registration" is going to go into high alert basically immediately This. Not a good idea IMO. When they pull you over, they have NO idea how it's gonna go, and "hey it's in my trunk" is gonna raise an eyebrow at a minimum. Put it in the glove box, and lock it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3407_6):
Awful idea. I see your logic, but you're not looking at it from the cop's perspective. My dd has vanity mirrors on both visors. I keep my reg tucked into the one on the driver's side so my hands are in full view when I go for it, no leaning over or any bs. Insurance card lives in the glovebox, but they rarely if ever seem to ask for it around here.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3407_7):
Originally posted by kronus also, a cop that hears "i need to get out of my car and go dick around in the trunk to show you my registration" is going to go into high alert basically immediately this x's eleventymillion

ANSWER 9 (id: 3407_9):
Originally posted by george graves I think you guys might have been watching a little too much CNN recently. I'm thinking your NOT a visible minority are you, Georgie