QUESTION ID: 729

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, Fun times..pulled out my cluster brought it home...tab broke and it fell on the floor. Great start to an '89 restoration project!! Aiming to replace or relocate the NiCd batteries.. But i noticed a switch on the rear, initially i thought it was some random dash plastic...sure enough its a switch. Anyone see this before? opine on WTF it is? imgur.com https://imgur.com/a/GJx0l0k Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users. thank you

ANSWER 1 (id: 729_1):
Originally posted by Vincenze The board is definitely hacked. Probably, somebody tried to bypass the batteries. Considering this is a series 2 or late model board...wtf were they trying to accomplish? Ill try to remove that switch then and replace batteries proper

ANSWER 2 (id: 729_2):
Some of SI boards have a jumper to disconnect the batteries when the board isn't installed. This long orange arrow points to it. Maybe, the owner tried to make the board to operate without the batteries.

ANSWER 3 (id: 729_3):
This is usually done by Programa I believe. They place the switch on there so that when it sits on the shelf, pre-sale, the batteries will not drain. Keep in mind your NICD battery SI board only last about 3-5 years so you will have to refurbish it every 3-5 years. Lithium boards, like pictured above last 30 years. Very important to replace all the transistors and caps, aside from the batteries. I have seen many hundreds of SI boards die from people changing the batteries without replacing the other components.

ANSWER 4 (id: 729_5):
Originally posted by Vincenze I wonder if the 18-pin connector is available new? No its not, BMW ran out a few years back. They were listing them at $1600 each too. There is no new stock worldwide. Programa sometimes sells "repaired" boards but I would not expect them to last more than a couple years, if that. We seem to be the only place in the world that offers a truly refurbished SI board.

ANSWER 5 (id: 729_6):
Originally posted by Gregs///M No its not, BMW ran out a few years back. They were listing them at $1600 each too. There is no new stock worldwide. Programa sometimes sells "repaired" boards but I would not expect them to last more than a couple years, if that. We seem to be the only place in the world that offers a truly refurbished SI board. But how do you replace that connector on the board with a new one? Do you have the part ID of the connector?

ANSWER 6 (id: 729_7):
Originally posted by Vincenze But how do you replace that connector on the board with a new one? Do you have the part ID of the connector? The connector itself? Of the thousands of SI boards I have repaired, I have never had to replace the connector. If yours is acid damaged, dont bother, replace the whole SI board.

ANSWER 7 (id: 729_9):
Thanks for the info, excellent Gregs. I installed the unit, it didnt work (maybe the switch was wrong position!! LOL) removed/switched it, and not my ignition cylinder is acting up. So i can not even turn the key correctly yet! best weekend so far hahaha oh man...