QUESTION ID: 159

QUESTION:
Hi everybody, hi doctor nick,..., So, I had to do some shimmy shimmy yeah'ing on my car the other day, and found a melted sensor, which also went through paint the other year, in my cowl, right under the screen for the fresh air in for the cabin, near the passenger wiper.. his is a world before pics..lol.., Its' the one that screws in right next to the positive in for what i believe is the pcm... anypics? anyone of what they think I'm describing? I need to know how vital it is for my cars' running condition, I have a new cranksensor, and she won't rev high without dying, and backfires like mad when she sits still and is rev'd.. Reading other threads on the subject, but nothing concrete found yet.!!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 159_0):
I really can't tell what you are talking about, but there's no sensor anywhere near that area that is part of the engine management system. Though the power lead for the DME is roughly in that area in the engine bay.

ANSWER 2 (id: 159_1):
yeah, if your talking about looking straight at the firewall from the front, its' immediately to the left of the power in for dme, its' behind the screen for the wiper cowl, i have no bloody clue what it is, or what it does yet.. driving me nutts!

ANSWER 3 (id: 159_6):
Eta ambient temperature sensor, methinks. The 2/87 eta I had had one there. Might just be a switch, now that I think about it... The 2002 had it on the intake manifold... t

ANSWER 4 (id: 159_7):
I just stumbled across this during a swap. I was completely stumped because I hadn't seen this sensor before. I can't believe I tracked down an answer from Jim Conforti almost 30 years ago. Apparently this is eta-specific, and it just raises the idle from 700 rpm to 850 rpm when the temp drops below freezing:From: Jim Conforti <jec_at_us.dynix.com> Date: Tue, 27 Dec 1994 11:40:08 -700 (MST) The Idle Control Unit (or module, hence called ICU) is an analog closed-loop controller based on some op-amps that outputs a PWM (Pulse Width Modulated) signal to the Idle Control Valve (called ICV) .. A current of 0mA will cause the ICV to be fully open, and a current of about 500mA (approx) will fully close it ... The ICU gets the following inputs ..12vdc [power] Ground RPM Signal [from coil primary] Idle Switch input Auto Trans Park/Neutral Input Engine Coolant Temp Switch input (closes at 45degC+ coolant temp) Air Temp Switch (on firewall, behind battery; closes at OdegC- air temp) The output is a two wire ckt. to the ICV .. The PROPER operation is a follows ... AT in ANY gear, 700 rpm AT in P/N or MT vehicles ... Engine cold (< 45degC) 950 rpm Engine warm (> 45degC) ... Ambient Air Cold (< 0degC) 850 rpm Ambient Air Warm (> 0degC) ... A/C ON 850 rpm A/C OFF 700 rpm Unofficial BMW http://www.unofficialbmw.com/faq/FAQ_15.html