QUESTION ID: 1918

QUESTION:
Anyone done the Prius (?) conversion????

ANSWER 1 (id: 1918_0):
No. But I DID drill a 5/16" hole in my hand once. Why on God's green earth would you want EPAS? It has all the feel of... a Prius. (yes, there are a few people who need that much assist. The rest of us cringe when we get it on a rental Nissan POS) t

ANSWER 2 (id: 1918_10):
Originally posted by hoveringuy Great idea! ;) This is PS supply and return, TWO rear brake lines and a single fuel supply. The engine bay will have two 12" flex hoses going to the rack, nothing more. Awesome! Build still in progress I presume?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1918_11):
Originally posted by Panici Awesome! Build still in progress I presume? Yes, it"s multiple things, all precipitated by the dual rear lines for the Mk60 ABS. Now that I have all the lines in I'll get the rear subframe back in The pump is 12" tall so it will be recessed into the trunk floor so the motor will be below and the res will be above. Thats the idea, anyway.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1918_12):
Originally posted by 82eye seems like a great mod for those looking to do something expensive and awful for no reason. does this even free up space that would be required for a swap ? Why is this aweful? You remove a hydraulic system, fluid leaks and maintenance. And it (marginally) pulls weight off the nose and moves it to the center of the car. The down side I see is taxing the alternator but you can also turn it off.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1918_2):
The rally guys seem to like it for simplicity. if you do the electric steering column, then you still retain the manual e30 steering rack so it should still feel ok. There's a way to put an adjustment knob on the dash for assist level (instead of speed dependent as the oems do it). That seems pretty cool. Im not exactly sure how those electric assist columns work but being adjustable surely you can make it feel good. As for Prius. almost every car is elec power steering now, so you've just gotta find one that fits. here is a nice looking plug and play option for quite a few dollars. Electric power steering BMW E30, power steering BMW e30 https://www.madirectionassistee.com/en/bmw/75-electric-power-steering-bmw-e30.html Electric power steering BMW E30, electric power steering for BMW e30, electric power steering conversion kit for BMW e30

ANSWER 6 (id: 1918_3):
Originally posted by Chuck Baader Anyone done the Prius (?) conversion???? There’s a company that makes EPS kits for E30s now (link below). Costs quite a bit though. You also have to surrender your current steering column as a core. For the people complaining about the “feel” of EPS, this kit also lets you adjust the steering boost. BMW e30 Electric Power Steering Kit https://epowersteering.com/purchase/product/bmw-e30-electric-power-steering-kit/ Electric Power Steering Kit for the BMW e30 Finally, after being requested enough times by our customers, we have put together the BMW e30 electric power steering kit. This unit is made for the the non-tilt steer model. This power steering module is installed underneath your dash. The complete EPS system and steering column only weighs

ANSWER 7 (id: 1918_4):
I have a prius electric steering unit, but I have not installed it. Its a very simple setup and compact enough to fit under the dash. I have seen several old hotrods with conversion using honda/toyota/ nissan units. Cant be too hard, right?

ANSWER 8 (id: 1918_6):
seems like a great mod for those looking to do something expensive and awful for no reason. does this even free up space that would be required for a swap ?

ANSWER 9 (id: 1918_8):
I'm excited for both electric power steering and electric AC to trickle down into the enthusiast market as affordable options. Dream setup would be trunk or undercarriage mounted components for an even cleaner looking engine bay. Would probably need a huge alternator under the hood to drive everything though!

ANSWER 10 (id: 1918_9):
Originally posted by Panici Dream setup would be trunk or undercarriage mounted components for an even cleaner looking engine bay. Great idea! ;) This is PS supply and return, TWO rear brake lines and a single fuel supply. The engine bay will have two 12" flex hoses going to the rack, nothing more.