QUESTION ID: 2891

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, I bought my E30 a little over 2 years ago and so far I have completely rust proofed the car ( new floor boards and and all panels fixed) and done all the suspension work I have wanted. The car recently got painted and now I think it is time for a nw engine. Would anyone be willing to run me through the costs of buying a rebuild kit/ rebuilt engine and having it swapped in for my current car. I am pretty decent with tools but I don’t have the time to swap it myself so please include what you would think the average shop would run. I am located in Columbus Ohio. Thanks in advance

ANSWER 1 (id: 2891_0):
I bought a used e30 engine and had the timing belt,water pump replaced while the engine was out of the car and the shop installed the engine for around $800.00. Not sure what it would be in Ohio.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2891_12):
Honestly there is no real sense in rebuilding a b27. It makes less power than the 325i b25 and would be the same cost for a rebuild. I would say slowly save up/collect parts for a swap to b25 or something totally different (v8?). If theres nothing wrong with what you have now besides high miles, take care of it with the normal maintenance and do your due diligence swapping an engine that could be more fun (subjective) to drive.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2891_2):
gonna need more details here mannn....We talking about rebuilding an S14 here or an m10? and we talking about changing a timing belt or full on boring the cylinders. The quick answer is....Alot$. The long answer is alot$ more than you think.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2891_3):
We can help you with the rebuilt engine part of things. You probably won't want to make the drive to SoCal for the install though. ;) Drop me an email. info@bimmerheads.com

ANSWER 5 (id: 2891_4):
Originally posted by e30davie gonna need more details here mannn....We talking about rebuilding an S14 here or an m10? and we talking about changing a timing belt or full on boring the cylinders. The quick answer is....Alot$. The long answer is alot$ more than you think. Sorry you are right. This is an m10 engine the E30 is 325es. I have already changed the alternator and master slave on the car but I feel like after 300k the car needs more. I don’t wanna be stuck on the side of a road is the short story.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2891_5):
Originally posted by 2mAn Whats wrong with the current engine. We need pics Nothing is currently wrong with the engine I just want to bullet proof it, that’s probably a better way of saying this. I don’t have current pics of the engine as it is in storage but I will work on that.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2891_6):
Originally posted by 325isman I bought a used e30 engine and had the timing belt,water pump replaced while the engine was out of the car and the shop installed the engine for around $800.00. Not sure what it would be in Ohio. Was this a main stream shop or just a local place? Appreciate the answer

ANSWER 8 (id: 2891_8):
Originally posted by lahooti Nothing is currently wrong with the engine I just want to bullet proof it, that’s probably a better way of saying this. I don’t have current pics of the engine as it is in storage but I will work on that. So if you have the money, have at it. I will say though that there are so many things that could leave you stranded and most of those are all connected to the engine in some way but not the actual engine. So that's a lot of money and time running down all the other stuff; sensors, wiring, intake boots, all the vacuum hoses, fuel pump, etc. Sounds like you are really going through the whole car, rust, body, suspension paint, so yeah man go for it. But if it were me, I would at least get the engine checked, some compression and leakdown tests etc. to truly see how healthy it is before just tearing into it.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2891_9):
Originally posted by lahooti Sorry you are right. This is an m10 engine the E30 is 325es. I have already changed the alternator and master slave on the car but I feel like after 300k the car needs more. I don’t wanna be stuck on the side of a road is the short story. If its a 325es you have a m20b27 unless its been swapped already?