QUESTION ID: 1228

QUESTION:
Looking into replacing my interior carpet. I've done the leathers on the seats myself, and it'd be nice to have a full interior refresh. You never see new convertible carpet available-- has anyone purchased the Auto Custom Carpets, Inc. cut pile or essex e30 2dr coupe variety and trimmed/modifed the rear corners to fit? It is probably very close to begin with, and looks do-able. If not, any other, better suggestions for brand new carpet? TIA!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1228_1):
Originally posted by AngeloF10 Not for vert but ECS has new OEM carpet in anthracite for the coupe. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Nice tip-- Thank you. I'm crafty and bet I could modify for slight differences if I had to. edit: Here's a link -- $1158.15 in Anthacite only I will likely look at other solutions at this time!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1228_11):
I'd love to get to the bottom of this as well. I remember reading somewhere that e82 1 series floormats almost fit the e30 vert. I think I even ordered some, but was unhappy with the fitment.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1228_12):
Following up one more time. Found a parts car local to me with Anthrazit carpet and got that, however I am still curious if anyone managed to make the coupe carpet fit the vert, and if so, what needs to be done to make it fit.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1228_3):
Originally posted by E30eli Were you able to modify the carpet to fit your vert? I did not as so many other important things came up since then. But that's the best option I can still find right now, going with the ACC coupe one and making slight modifications at the rear footwell. The "mass backing" one looks closest to what ours was OEM. 1066 Gray is closest to my color. Have you looked into this at all?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1228_4):
Originally posted by phillipj Nice tip-- Thank you. I'm crafty and bet I could modify for slight differences if I had to. edit: Here's a link -- $1158.15 in Anthacite only I will likely look at other solutions at this time! There must not be very many of these left, as the price continues to escalate by $100 a year. The rear section has been NLA in all colors for a long time.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1228_5):
Originally posted by ghrays There must not be very many of these left, as the price continues to escalate by $100 a year. The rear section has been NLA in all colors for a long time. If I do it, I may just order the Gray Coupe version from Rock Auto. At $300 I can stomach it but at $1200 might be too much for car carpet projects right now given everything going on.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1228_9):
Originally posted by thrashandburnn Any updates on this? Otherwise, I'm just gonna pull the carpet out of a parts car and dye it. Not that I can tell. "kenrk" above said he got the coupe one in the other thread on this, but said it didn't work. Asked why it wasn't possible to modify? but haven't heard back I really feel like you could trim the rear to work, and the front is similar enough to work, but I have not pulled the trigger to try this yet.