QUESTION ID: 3236

QUESTION:
I slid under the e30 today to investigate a grinding noise I have been hearing on acceleration from a dead stop. Found this. Two bolt points for the rear diff stress fractured and snapped. So the drive shaft has been rubbing on the sub frame. Question is do you guys think its safe enough to drive it to work until I can get a replacement sub frame? If I baby it and take it real easy. I don't have another car to use and work is a half hour from my house by car and two hours by buss, so not having a car kind of fucks me.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3236_0):
Oh my.... What are you feeding that thing? That said.... since those two points are no longer "attached", it's going to put stress on other mounting areas. I'm not sure I'd want to make that gamble.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3236_1):
As much as its gonna suck parking it, realize that taking the bus and waiting to get it fixed is better that driving it and having your diff suddenly drop out and fuck up all kinds of other shit. It could hold but you're relying on the 2 front mounting points and the rear mounting point to absorb the drivetrain vibration and keep the damn thing from becoming a moving metal speed bump. I would say park it, just my 2 cents. Gluck.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3236_11):
Originally posted by squidmaster Well..... Uhm... That's one way to temporarily fix it? I would personally try to rent a car for a few days. Of course if you're under 25 the fees are ridiculous. What about Uber or Lyft? I see ads from both of them offering $5 or 50% off rides. Really it could cost you a lot more money, and possibly serious physical injury to yourself and others if you continue driving on that. Better to be safe. Im going to risk it. Iv been driving on it for literally weeks with out knowing what it was. I thought I had a bad center support bearing. Im just going to baby it as much as possible. It still has 2 out of the 4 diff mounting bolts to the sub frame in tact, plus the bushing mount point to the chassis. The ratchet strap is rated for hundreds of pounds and will keep the diff from moving around until my parts show up and I can spend a weekend welding everything together and installing the new sub frame. If it works Im happy, if I die you guys are all welcome to call me a dumb ass and laugh at me like Im tryna.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3236_12):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella OP make sure to post pics when it all goes to shit. I'm looking forward to this :popcorn: Here hold my :drink:

ANSWER 5 (id: 3236_6):
Originally posted by mr2peak I've got a spare subframe you can have if you find a way to get it to WA. If you wrap it up and shop it to me I'll pay you for shipping plus what ever you want for the subframe. PayPal ready I need it ASAP :)

ANSWER 6 (id: 3236_8):
temp band-aid until the replacement sub frame shows up in the mail. Id love to park it but I cant get to work with out my wheels taking the bus 4 hours every day + plus working 10 hours is a deal breaker. Inspired by Top Gear.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3236_9):
Well..... Uhm... That's one way to temporarily fix it? I would personally try to rent a car for a few days. Of course if you're under 25 the fees are ridiculous. What about Uber or Lyft? I see ads from both of them offering $5 or 50% off rides. Really it could cost you a lot more money, and possibly serious physical injury to yourself and others if you continue driving on that. Better to be safe.