QUESTION ID: 1787

QUESTION:
Hello, I've been away from the R3v forum and the BMW scene for several years and like the title states, I'm selling my 1991 325iX that I've owned for the last 10+ years and I'm looking for some advice on pricing. In my opinion it's a clean example that runs good, looks good and has a little rust.5 speed manual 130k miles. awd works as it should and is amazing! 2 sets of wheels. (OEM w/ center caps and steels wheels with Blizzak snow tires. I also have a set of authentic alpina wheels that I will likely sell separately). M Tech steering wheel. M Tech cloth interior sport seats after market seat heaters Currently needs a sway bar end link. (Driver's side). Has a warm start issue that sometimes makes it hard to start but runs good and idles smooth once started. (Guessing it's a coolant temp sensor issue). Could use a new exhaust system. Head liner is intact but coming unglued in several places. I've done a little research on pricing and it seems like they're selling for anywhere between $8k and $20k. Thanks in advance!​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1787_0):
A friend's DS 91 ix sedan recently sold on one of the popular auction sites for ~11k. I'd venture the negative rust on yours and the positive two door aspect make it worth the same or slightly less. The mileage is low, but not low enough to be remarkable IMO. I'd probably advertise it at 12 or 13k, keeping in mind that E30 values might be rolling over and on the way back down. You can always take less, or you could list it on any of the popular sites and hope for a hot bidding war on sale day.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1787_1):
Has its pluses and minuses, Id say it would fall in the 8-12k range, but that rust will scare a lot of people away. Take care of the easy issues you mentioned and list it for $12k

ANSWER 3 (id: 1787_2):
List for 10-11, but expect around 9. As someone who is trying to sell a similar priced e30 with body issues (in my case, 318is slicktop with hail damage), if you want a quicker sale, swap out the steering wheel and interior and list for 8.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1787_3):
Market is unkind at the moment- a super clean 2dr 82k original mile rust free iX is for sale by me for 10k and it has just been sitting. Automatic though, so not apples to apples. Judging by the body rust on your car, I’m sure the passenger rear wheel well, front floor corners, and other spots are also rusty. Rust will be the value killer IMO. iXes had an abnormal price hike in the past few years that I do not think is sustainable due to consumable items being unobtanium and/or insanely expensive. iXes on BAT vs Marketplace seem to have a bigger delta vs a similar 325iS compared between the markets. Marketplace I think it’ll bring $8-10k if you fix the small stuff, BAT I bet you’ll get $10-14k.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1787_4):
Hello all...Thanks for the replies. Sounds like I was in the right ball park as I was thinking I'd list it locally for $13k (or there about) and see how it goes. I don't have any experience with BAT but I've bought and sold a car or two on eBay so I'll likely list it there with a reasonable reserve. Thanks again for the advice!