QUESTION ID: 478

QUESTION:
I'm working on adding a mono amplifier in the trunk for subwoofers. My first time diving this deep into car audio stuff. I am looking for some kind of battery top post distribution block that will let me keep the stock positive battery cable. I really don't want to cut it if I don't have to (I know that would make things easier, but I have no way to crimp a new terminal on that 0 gauge wire or whatever size it is. ) This is what I've come up with so far. It works but it sticks straight up and the battery cover doesn't fit over it: KnuKonceptz Bassik Positive Battery Terminal and a Top Post Adapter: Bassik Positive Battery Terminal https://www.knukonceptz.com/product/bassik-positive-battery-terminal/ The Bassik Positive Battery Terminal is just as the name implies, basic but with a twist! KnuKonceptz has engineered a simple design with a vast number of installation options available to the installer. The Bassik Battery Terminal uses button head screws for a low profile to fasten ring terminals of all types and gauges onto… Battery Top Post Adapter https://www.knukonceptz.com/product/car-battery-top-post-adapter-positive-negative/ KnuKonceptz Top Post Adapter can be fitted to either our Bassik or Ultimate Battery terminal. The TPA allows the installer to retain the OEM battery post hardware. No Cutting or modifying required. Please note, the NEGATIVE POST can not be substituted for a POSITIVE POST. The post diameters of the positive and negative terminal are… Yes I know the negative is on the wrong side of the shutoff, but this is just a first test fit and I'll find a way to put it on the other side in the future. Messy test fit but it works! I need to run a remote signal instead of hard wiring it to the +, and also the remote bass boost wire.

ANSWER 1 (id: 478_0):
I've also tried their "Ultimate Battery Terminal V2" and it doesn't sit well in the E30 trunk. Too close to the metal behind the carpet, and the other side the battery itself is in the way. Ultimate Car Battery 0 Gauge Terminal https://www.knukonceptz.com/product/ultimate-automotive-car-battery-terminal-v2-postive-negative/ Connect your OEM Battery Connector without Cutting your Factory Wiring Harness. 1/0 and 4 Gauge Ports allow Auxiliary Battery Connections and Amp Installation ​ Ideally a shorter battery height and without recessed terminals seems like it would avoid all these issues.

ANSWER 2 (id: 478_1):
I went through the same decision a few weeks ago and ended up going with the Recoil Terminals. They seem to be very flexible by giving you the option to position the additional connectors on either side or the top. I'd upload real photos, but the car is in timeout in the shop ;( Amazon.com https://amzn.to/3WlhdHR ​

ANSWER 3 (id: 478_2):
Please upload pics when you get your car back. I am curious on the clearance for those. For now I ended up going back to plain old ring terminals to keep it simple. And the ground is on the chassis side so the battery cutoff works as well.