QUESTION ID: 3288

QUESTION:
Who was selling this? I can't find a reference to it anywhere

ANSWER 1 (id: 3288_10):
Originally posted by mr2peak Dude. Make these. It should be easy, and I'm sure tons of people will step up and buy them. It's a really, really cool factory looking mod. I agree. I have a boost gauge from justrack and it works great to this day. Aside from turbocharging my car, it is one of the best mods I have done to my car. Very stealth and OEM looking. I'm pretty sure a lot of people would get these.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3288_13):
Originally posted by Kershaw Sell the research/plans to bavrest then, if you're not going to produce them. I was no provided design plans, all the research information I have is what he posted publicly in a forum. There is more to making this work than most people anticipate, and I don't have the time right now to redesign it in order to mass produce them.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3288_2):
I would ask Bavarian Restoration: Bavarian Restoration http://www.bavrest.com/index.html Instrument Cluster Testing - Full testing of all BMW E30, E23, E24 & E28 instrument clusters. Odometer Repair - Common problem on all vintage BMW! Clear cover polishing Custom needle paint Variety...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3288_3):
you are right. there was a college kid a few years ago that made a nifty prototype. i sold him a bunch of cluster parts to make product. to my knowledge, nothing ever became of it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3288_5):
Originally posted by flyboyx you are right. there was a college kid a few years ago that made a nifty prototype. i sold him a bunch of cluster parts to make product. to my knowledge, nothing ever became of it. Yeah, I knew there was something. Gonna dig through my PM's and see what's there. He was doing some cool conversion. Volt meter, oil pressure, and something else as well I believe. Shouldn't be too hard to accomplish, just need to know the sender resistance, gauge resistance, and make a face-plate.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3288_7):
Justrack made the econoboost gauge and made me an oil temp version for me. I was going to take over his gauge designs and manufacture them, but this got shelved as I'm designing other gauges.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3288_8):
Originally posted by MC Hammered Justrack made the econoboost gauge and made me an oil temp version for me. I was going to take over his gauge designs and manufacture them, but this got shelved as I'm designing other gauges. Dude. Make these. It should be easy, and I'm sure tons of people will step up and buy them. It's a really, really cool factory looking mod.