QUESTION ID: 2853
TOPIC: clutch_replacement

QUESTION:
Hi everyone, I am new to the e30 community and have been trying to do some research before pulling the trigger on a 325is coupe. The ad is very limited but after speaking with the seller, here are some of the details I know: BC coilovers. AC does not work but everything is there. Clutch is newish New valve cover gasket, throttle cable, and spark plugs. No rust. Two small dash cracks. Odometer stopped working. New brakes. I am planning to take a look at the car on Saturday. What do you guys think? The car is listed for $5000. Thank you for your feedback! ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- UPDATE: Instead of creating a second post, i'll just edit this one to include another one that I might look at: https://jacksonville.craigslist.org/cto/d/bmwis-e30-5spd-white-cardinal/6639950674.html Adver: VIN: WBAAA130XLEC65681 car has been carefully maintained by same owner & mechanic since 20k miles (90% of the total mileage). i am the third owner, only had her for the past 1k. been daily-ing her for a few weeks. selling because i'd like something more convenient like a civic, accord etc the car runs fine although i dont know the first thing about maintaining a car, much less a 30yo bmw; certainly there is some routine maintenance that needs to be done. issues >right window stuck >glovebox stuck >dash cracks >getrag rattle noise, completely harmless (see below link) >was told by mechanic that ac compressor's days are numbered. ac works great and likely will for a long time but is showing signs of wear >typical old car cosmetic stuff (rubber bumper paint, feels a little bouncy going over speed bumps) i tried to get as much as possible in the pics. if you know basic mechanic-ing this is a good E30. i had my mechanic do timing belt, water pump, alternator, front/rear brakes, brake lights and i think some other stuff. i did oil/filter, air filter & power steering hoses. Getrag rattle and how to alleviate it | RTS - Your Total BMW Enthusiast http://www.rtsauto.com/getrag-rattle-and-how-to-alleviate-it/ Hearing the Getrag rattle for the first time can be unsettling. This rattle is a common sound produced by Getrag transmissions, especially the 5-speed models found in E30s, BMWs, and GMs, when the car is in neutral and the clutch is not engaged. The rattle disappears when the clutch pedal is pressed or the car Thanks for any advice and feedback!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2853_0):
Overpriced at $5k Broken odometer gears and BC coils tell me a lot about the owner. $3-3500 is where I would aim. Id try and get the stock suspension from him (at least the strut housings) so you can sell the chinese coils and buy a good spring/ shock combo. The wheels are likely ESM reps also, but I like the way they look. Its also missing the cowcatcher so I would verify that its actually an IS compared to a regular model.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2853_1):
Originally posted by 2mAn Overpriced at $5k Broken odometer gears and BC coils tell me a lot about the owner. $3-3500 is where I would aim. Id try and get the stock suspension from him (at least the strut housings) so you can sell the chinese coils and buy a good spring/ shock combo. The wheels are likely ESM reps also, but I like the way they look. Its also missing the cowcatcher so I would verify that its actually an IS compared to a regular model. Yes, I've been researching coilover suspension kits for the e30 because I plan to track and autocross the car. A simple picture of the title should show the car to be a 325is, right? Anything else I should look for when inspecting the car?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2853_10):
Theres a guy selling one here for about $50... they are usually destroyed, so price depends on conditions and also the brackets and fogs can affect the price!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2853_11):
If it's not rusty and if the body and paint is as good as it looks you are into something good. Everything besides body and paint can be fixed in a weekend.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2853_13):
Originally posted by og8790 Does anyone here have any experience fixing the AC in their e30? I converted mine to r134a before the engine swap and I'm working on getting it going again. Sent from my Moto G (5) Plus using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 2853_2):
Originally posted by 2mAn Overpriced at $5k Broken odometer gears and BC coils tell me a lot about the owner. $3-3500 is where I would aim. Id try and get the stock suspension from him (at least the strut housings) so you can sell the chinese coils and buy a good spring/ shock combo. The wheels are likely ESM reps also, but I like the way they look. Its also missing the cowcatcher so I would verify that its actually an IS compared to a regular model. well said! I believe it is a true 325is judging by the 13 button OBC and sport seats.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2853_4):
I can't say for sure if the price is really correct, but considering that it's an early model coupe with the 'i' motor, it's a pretty good deal. It's pretty hard to find early model i's since they only came out for one year, and if you're a fan of the metal bumper and overall styling of the early cars, I'd say it's a pretty fair buy. However, I would probably shoot for $4,000 to $4,500 just because it looks a little rough around the edges.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2853_6):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I think 4k would be fair. 87 325is with an mtech 1 kit is bonerific. Yea, I was looking at those if I didn't get the plastic bumper model. I think 4k is going to be my offer considering it still needs work. It looks like paint is missing on the right fender.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2853_7):
Does Matt still own this car? I know he owned it earlier this year. Either way, looks like a pretty nice car in the pictures. BC coils aren't the worst...they could have installed Racelands lol. The only thing I see that hurts the value is the missing front airdam and the worn driver seat. Kind of looks like the driver door panel is coming unglued too. I'd probably pay $4500 if, and only if it still has an LSD.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2853_8):
Originally posted by Codym42 Does Matt still own this car? I know he owned it earlier this year. Either way, looks like a pretty nice car in the pictures. BC coils aren't the worst...they could have installed Racelands lol. The only thing I see that hurts the value is the missing front airdam and the worn driver seat. Kind of looks like the driver door panel is coming unglued too. I'd probably pay $4500 if, and only if it still has an LSD. I don't know who Matt is, but the seller's name is Robert. How much does an airdam usually run for?

ANSWER 11 (id: 2853_9):
Originally posted by og8790 I don't know who Matt is, but the seller's name is Robert. How much does an airdam usually run for? I see them on Craigslist from time to time for $100-200 with peeling paint. Sent from my Moto G (5) Plus using Tapatalk