QUESTION ID: 1423

QUESTION:
Hello, first time poster here. Mods, I've read the rules and searched, hopefully this posting is OK, if not please move or close as you see fit. My mother (yes, a little old lady in her 70's), has a 1991 3 series MTechnic convertible that she has owned since 1994 (she is the 2nd owner, bought it with about 10k on the odo). The car is a silver 5 speed, has the special wheels, handling package, appearance package, (including all the badges, skirts, shift knob, special cloth, etc.). From what I've been able to find out the MTechnic had an extremely limited production to begin with, and this may be one of 18 silver cars with a 5 speed transmission. Mom's finally gotten to the point where it's difficult to get in and out of it and is considering selling, but she has no idea what it's worth. Any help in that regard would be much appreciated. It has been her daily driver since she has owned it, as such it has the wear and tear you would expect from a daily driven car. It has 137k on the ODO right now, has been maintained/serviced on a regular basis, everything works although she had the power top converted to manual operation after it died about 8 years ago and the repairs were going to be prohibitively expensive. Timing belt and cooling system were addressed 500 miles ago. She has had two fender benders, both repaired by BMW dealers. Cloth Interior is faded from driving with the top down and the bottom of the drivers seat fabric has split, she put some aftermarket seat covers on over them several years ago. It's got the minor nicks, scratches, scrapes, etc. from 137k miles of driving. Unfortunately at some point the battery leaked so the tray is pretty much toast. I believe the car was originally sold by RoadShow BMW near Memphis, she bought it from the original owner in Paris, TN. The car has been in Middle Tennessee since she's owned it, has not seen salt, etc. Overall in solid, decent condition. I would guess 6/7 out of 10 for it's mileage. Any help would be greatly appreciated! Hopefully this album link works. Error 404 (Not Found)!!1 https://goo.gl/photos/Y3DhufpvEZNUFvrr8 Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1423_10):
I'm uploading some interior pics to the gallery. Unfortunately it looks like most of the seat fabric has separated along with some stitching on the drivers side upper bolster. All in all the leather seems to be in decent shape. Got the VIN today; it's EC04969, within the ranges listed here. www.e30ic.com

ANSWER 2 (id: 1423_12):
I can understand not wanting to subject yourself and the vert to BAT. But such a rare original car with even more rare 5-speed is right in the wheelhouse of BAT, and especially with e30 prices surging. I'd just make it clear that you can still find original cloth and that repro cloth is readily available. Knowing what it takes to recondition one of these real m-techs, $13k is a bargain. Real badges are nearly impossible to find and someone on this forum is trying to sell damaged leather shifter and e-brake consoles for over a grand. GLWS or auction.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1423_2):
Huge want! I'll be in Memphis this weekend and could extend my trip.... Must resist and avoid divorce court...... Seriously, if the interior is not too trashed and you're up for the hassle, you can probably maximize the sale price by auctioning it on Bring a Trailer. Cory

ANSWER 4 (id: 1423_3):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Beautiful car a great back story. Im not sure what its worth but Im interested. you may want to upload some interior pics. In the process of removing the seat covers, will add some interior shots when that's done.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1423_4):
Originally posted by cory58 Huge want! I'll be in Memphis this weekend and could extend my trip.... Must resist and avoid divorce court...... Seriously, if the interior is not too trashed and you're up for the hassle, you can probably maximize the sale price by auctioning it on Bring a Trailer. Cory I've been down the BAT route before with other vehicles. Don't know that I have the time to deal with it on this one.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1423_5):
Originally posted by Twisties I've been down the BAT route before with other vehicles. Don't know that I have the time to deal with it on this one. Not to mention about 80% of he people on that site are complete douche bags. I really believe most of them are professional auction saboteurs. Please don't subject this E30 to that crowd of douche bags.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1423_6):
Originally posted by JimmyP Not to mention about 80% of he people on that site are complete douche bags. I really believe most of them are professional auction saboteurs. Please don't subject this E30 to that crowd of douche bags. Hah! I was trying to be polite :)

ANSWER 8 (id: 1423_7):
Looks good and all the main parts are there. It needs a good cleaning/detail, recover the seats if they are really bad and take some high res pics with the top down somewhere scenic. You should be able to get a least $13k. Here are some links you should read: M tech Registry http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=360817 Definitive 91 M tech thread http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=261624