QUESTION ID: 3397

QUESTION:
$2850 monies for wheels Asking partial refund Case involves wheels recently purchase which were not as described. At no point before purchase of wheels did seller mention faces were filled and drilled. Upon questioning of this after the fact the seller "claimed" there was no such thing has genuine 16 in BBS faces. There was no way I would have paid almost $3K for filled and drilled wheels. For what the seller was asking, the expectation is the wheels would be MINT. That is far from the case here. I'll let the pics do the talking. The case is in dispute status with paypal which requires me to get objective opinions on this case and the wheels in question. Marks under the clearcoat. Seller did not know how this happened and only offered to trade me BBS caps to "rarer" ones for my trouble. The marks are on 2 wheels. Pic of other mark. Also noted in this pic is how the cap will not sit flush on the face. Seller claimed I could just bend it flat. I tried, whats shown on the pic is about how flush it will sit even with the cap screwed on. 2 of the caps are like this. Pic of 2nd cap. as you can see it is even more warped. There is also question of what nuts are used. I was expecting genuine bolts and nuts. Seller would not respond to this question. 2 issues here Seller also did not mention until after the sale that I would not be able to use factory lugs. I learned about this when I test fitted the wheels...the tapered end on the lugs is too wide to fit. Shown is the factory wheel lock. Its hard to make out but the tapered end does not even sit flush against the wheel. second issue is, I also was not able to sit the wheel on the hub. Seller stated I just had to "clean off the rust on my hubs." That is BS.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3397_10):
Yeah Paypal has been very good on my refunds regarding fitment issues. I dont see why paypal would have an issue on a full refund after you ship this item back to the seller. The seller clearly didnt know what he had or just did not disclose pertinent information. I would just forward the pictures and a copy of the ad.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3397_11):
Spending that much cash? Nothing is assumed. Ask questions. Come to find out, people lie. Seems you are on track for a full refund. dogze30 has some wheels for sale...

ANSWER 3 (id: 3397_12):
Thanks for the responses. I contacted the seller to make a set of wheels for me after seeing his FS ad so there never was a ad placed for the set I own. I found it a little odd that the seller wouldnt identify his FB profile since this was just a large transaction. I freely gave him the link to my profile. Yea there are about 6 BBS rs models that come in 16" 4x100 stock. RS003 RS004 RS073 RS074 RS354 RS764 I ended up having to educate him. This just comes down to the principle that he straight up LIED to me. Sellers response

ANSWER 4 (id: 3397_3):
Where were they posted? I'm curious to see th e original ad. I was the one who told you they were redrills on FB btw. Redrills have become quite common these days as most multipiece low offset wheels were 5 lug. Sorry but you should have done your homework or asked the forum if you weren't sure of what you were getting. Hopefully you do get a partial refund for non-disclosure an and misrepresentation.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3397_6):
OP, you should ask for a full refund and give the wheels back. One item of contention.. yeah ok whatever. Two? ehh... 5 issues? No. And that's BS about the faces. IIRC, 15" and 16" faces and waffles are the same, and there are plenty of RS001 (oem option) 15x7, 4x100. Only the barrel size changes. And I think that BBS RS003, quite a bit more rare though, came in 4x100, 16x7 configuration. I think the hub is even 57.1mm on the RS003 too, so fitment is direct.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3397_7):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 Personally, I'd want to return them for a full refund. Wouldn't want anything to do with em. Agreed. Originally posted by reelizmpro Redrills have become quite common these days as most multipiece low offset wheels were 5 lug. Sorry but you should have done your homework or asked the forum if you weren't sure of what you were getting. Hopefully you do get a partial refund for non-disclosure an and misrepresentation. I hear you, though for this kind of money the seller should also be making absolutely sure the buyer knows exactly what he's getting. Anything less could potentially be viewed as fraudulent or intentional misrepresentation.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3397_8):
He says he had to refund somebody so i'm guessing that's not you though. Looking at his current ad he has 1 set redrilled and 1 not with no specs saying the bolts are legit. Asking for a partial refund would be subjective on the amount and it seems you wouldn't feel too happy unless it was substantial. If you can get a full refund and move along to something you feel that doesn't warranty any dispute. Originally posted by White325is http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=378753

ANSWER 8 (id: 3397_9):
There is no mention of fitment issues with the center caps and no mention of needing to use different lugs to secure them, in either of the ads posted The original ad for your wheels, however, is gone so we can't actually see what the ad looked like, only what similar ads look like. I would just get a full refund, send the wheels back, and find something that you actually like. It appears as though there was enough misrepresentation to warrant you returning them for a refund.