QUESTION ID: 1469

QUESTION:
So after searching all over the internet, and even getting in touch with the guy I purchased my old ix sedan from some 6-7 years ago, no places seemed to be rebuilding these ix axles anymore due lack of rebuild parts. The following places are no longer rebuilding: Axle Express - Schenectady, NY RAxles - Florida After some further research it seems like some Colorado guys have had good luck with CVJ Axles, Inc. They quoted me $250+ per side plus shipping from NY, which is like halfway across the country. Shipping would likely be another $50+ each way. I then stumbled upon Axles Unlimited of Charlotte INC, (http://www.axlesunlimitedinc.com) which is a place out of North Carolina. Spoke with Dave (owner?) on the phone and he seems super cool and actually knew about the rarity of these and how to rebuild them. He told me that his rebuild was basically everything new, joints, bearing, cage, boots etc. with him just using the actual shaft. He quoted me $150 per side, which I though was very fair. Dave told me that he used to supply these fully rebuilt for $200 plus core, but nobody was sending the cores back anymore. I explained that smart ix owners have been hoarding for quite some time now. So, the plan right now is to remove the axles from my car (both with torn inner boots) and send them out to him for a rebuild. I will update this thread once I get the rebuilt axles and give a review. If he does a good job I am going to send him over my spare set as well for a complete rebuild. For the price and the fact that he is knowledgeable on the rebuild process I think its a pretty good investment. Maybe this lead on a rebuilder will cause others to do the same. Stay tuned for an update..

ANSWER 1 (id: 1469_10):
Originally posted by ringmeister81 +1 Axles Unlimted... quick turnaround, quality work, Dave was very knowledgeable and helpful... would recommend Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Good to know thank you for your review! Unfortunately other projects have put my ix on the back burner this summer and I haven't had time to pull my axles and get them sent out.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1469_11):
https://www.pelicanparts.com/catalog...SUSAXL_pg1.htm I think I found them back in stock at Pelican although they are getting quite pricey...almost on par with our rear trailing arms :( :(

ANSWER 3 (id: 1469_12):
Originally posted by ACVC325ix https://www.pelicanparts.com/catalog...SUSAXL_pg1.htm I think I found them back in stock at Pelican although they are getting quite pricey...almost on par with our rear trailing arms :( :( And that's why we get them rebuilt. lol CVJ did a great job on mine!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1469_3):
I'd like to see where he sources new cages from. Rebuilding the axles is easier than replacing the front suspension, imo. Finding the parts though, that's the issue.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1469_4):
Axles Unlimited rebuilt the front axles on my ix a few years ago. As I recall, I mailed them off and got them back again pretty quickly. I definitely recommend them.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1469_5):
I found a place in Quebec, up here in Canada that will do them. I just received mine today and they look great. They had no problem doing them and the service was very good (one of the guys came to the shop on a holiday to let me drop off). The place is called A1 CV Tech http://www.a1cvtech.com/hist_an.htm. It seems like the pretty much specialize in special CV's. They do them for around $250.00 CAD per axle. The guy I talked to was Marco and was very helpful.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1469_9):
I bought a pair of rebuilds from CVJ a couple years ago. They were very enthusiastic about me sending back my busted ones ASAP to rebuild. They were also much less expensive back then, I guess they've come to realize how much demand there is for IX axles. It was about $180 per axle from CVJ a few years back. I will definitely keep Axles Unlimited in mind. Front strut housings and axles are worth like triple their weight in gold for Northeastern IX owners.