QUESTION ID: 2892

QUESTION:
Hey r3v, I have never been an active poster here but you all have helped me out countless times with building my e30. I bought this gorgeous 99% rust free 1990 325i 5 speed in June 2016. The body had been repainted and it had a nice eta/i stroker build. I enjoyed it for a few months until December 2016 when I couldn't solve a nagging running issue, which turned out to be a worn camshaft on 4 out of 6 cylinders with almost 0 psi on cylinder 5. I decided to start a s52 swap last April. I never quite ironed out the whole car until just a week ago when I got the suspension right where I wanted it. I took it on its first real joy ride just last Saturday. It was amazing. Yesterday, after leaving Hunt Valley Horsepower in MD, I was involved in a 4 car pileup on i695. First collision for me in 10 years of driving. Some guy came to a complete stop in the center lane, causing a Dodge Journey behind him to safely come to a complete stop. Right before that happened a Ford Edge moved into the space I had been following the Journey. The Edge failed to stop or apply brakes at all smashing into the Journey, and I was not able to stop in time. If the Edge hadn't moved in there I'm sure I would have had enough visibility and following distance to stop or avoid. I was then hit from behind as well by a civic. The guy who initially stopped left the scene, and no one got his tags or knows why he stopped. The Edge, my car, and the civic were all inoperable after the crash, the Journey somehow was OK enough to drive off. Well, here's the pictures. I'm 99% sure it's totaled, just wanted to post a few pictures here and see what you all thought since I can't sleep at all tonight. My insurance company's claim center is closed on weekends so I won't hear from them for another day. Don't worry about me, I'm completely fine. The left rear quarter panel is heavily damaged and although I haven't jacked up the car yet since I'm too upset to get out and look at it, I'm guessing the front right frame rail is trashed. The engine shockingly still starts right up and there's no check engine light (obd2)! I can't get the hood open to inspect the damage further, but looks like everything inside survived besides radiator and vanos cover. The passenger side door and trunk won't open either. I just put the car on an agreed value policy last week for 10k with NCM (National Corvette Museum) insurance. Wish I had done it for more. If it is totaled I will definitely save everything I can and build another, but it's difficult to give up on 2 years of hard work. Thanks guys. I hope all of you have agreed value coverage too. Full pictures here: https://imgur.com/a/E2kZD

ANSWER 1 (id: 2892_1):
what a fucking bummer. its always other people... glad you walked away. now slowly back away from the car and begin the part out. i hope you find another beauty soon...

ANSWER 2 (id: 2892_2):
The damage in the rear is pretty great. If it was just front and rear was fine I would save it. But its going to cost to much to try to repair your frame. Keep a lookout on craigslist or here for another shell. Swap everything over. Many people here have done that,

ANSWER 3 (id: 2892_3):
If it was just the front OR rear that was damaged, I could see saving it. But seeing the front and rear both damaged so badly, it's probably not worth saving. That sucks, looked like a nice car. Hope you can find a new shell.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2892_5):
Thanks for the input everyone. I'm definitely going to buy it back and keep all the good stuff. I hope to pick up a nice shell later this year and start over. Not looking forward to all that but I've done the swap twice before I can certainly do it again. But first I'm going to try to finish up my 2002 project that's been sitting for years. I'm getting the dead m20 from this e30 rebuilt right now and hope to drop that in this summer. Once that's done I'll definitely be in the market for an e30 shell.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2892_6):
I would say to keep your eyes open looking for shells. Its getting harder and hard to find something in nice condition such as your old car. Possibly keep some of lower rear valance and things like that for your next car. Harder to find ones without rust issues.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2892_8):
Originally posted by ttrousdell yea the rear damage was the death sentence for this car. sorry for your loss man. this... bummer. Fight to get a good chunk of change, and buy the car back so you can have a parts car ready to swap all the goodies over

ANSWER 7 (id: 2892_9):
Damn, sorry to see this. Same thing happened to me a while back in my e36. Someone stopped hard on the highway, next person in front of me brakes hard, idiot cuts me off taking away my safe braking space and I rear ended him.... good luck working it all out