QUESTION ID: 2329

QUESTION:
Anyone know of a classic car insurance that doesn't require a garage? I currently have my '90 vert on my general policy and it is around $900 a year (in NJ) and I only drive it summers for around 2k miles a year, so I'd like to save some money there if possible. I garage it in the winter months but spring and summer it sits in my driveway. Let me know what you all have found. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2329_12):
Originally posted by 2mAn and yet, he still gets the present Hello, FBI, some big old bully is threatening to blow up smilies. Yeah, online. What, hello, hello?

ANSWER 2 (id: 2329_2):
that's the caveat with collector policies - the vehicle has to be garaged when not in use. that's one of the reasons the yearly premiums are vastly less than "daily driver" insurance.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2329_4):
Originally posted by DrJosh I have an agreed value policy with safeco. $300 annually with no storage/use/mileage limits. Insurance valued my 89 325is at 23k. Who is the underwriter? My quote from Safeco was pretty high last time I checked but I am in CA.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2329_5):
Originally posted by monty23psk Just state that the garage you store it is always your garage. You just need to prove you have a garage. Yeah that's a brilliant idea. Lie to an insurance company.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2329_6):
Originally posted by varg Yeah that's a brilliant idea. Lie to an insurance company. you mean you're not down with insurance fraud?! what is the meaning of life?!

ANSWER 6 (id: 2329_7):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Who is the underwriter? My quote from Safeco was pretty high last time I checked but I am in CA. My I use a broker, First Mark Insurance. California could be a major source of your problem.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2329_8):
Originally posted by varg Yeah that's a brilliant idea. Lie to an insurance company. Never said to lie, while I am sure it happens all the time. OP stated he "garages" it for the winter. Use that one if possible.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2329_9):
We have a Hagerty agency very near, they have a range of policy options. Some for collector cars '79 and older, some for specialty cars that can be newer, but must be well sorted, and yes, they ask about garaging and are picky about condition of the car. There is some flex with a physical garage, as long as it's not parked on the street, not driven to work, not used daily, no ride sharing use, 3 years driving with no major infractions, and so forth. Also, every licensed driver in the home must have a daily driver with 'regular-use insurance.' From their website (Hagerty dot com): "Storage --Though we prefer that collector vehicles are stored in an enclosed, secure structure when not in use—such as a private garage, pole barn or storage unit—we will consider other storage types, including:*Carports Driveways Parking garages Car hauling trailers" "Also, a class for '80 and newer vehicles --An extra vehicle, not for primary use Vehicle must be in very good or better condition Vehicle must hold a minimum value of $3,500 Used for pleasure driving not regular commuting, ex. shows, scenic drives, occasional drives to work, etc. Protected, preferably in a garage, but carport and driveway allowed in many areas" "Examples include:Limited or special edition models Supercars/exotics or imports Special interest vehicles" I didn't insure with them, because my '86 has serious paint condition issues, but after that's taken care of I will see them. Happy Hunting!