QUESTION ID: 1224

QUESTION:
There are many cabrio owners here that have questions and concerns. How about we have a thread that contains information about some of the main topics on one thread. Sure, we can all search but we all dont but lets keep it all on one thread. Lets start with a set of actual BMW videos. I would also like some help from some members that I have little info about...swapping from power top to manual top. Does anybody have a writeup on how its done? Another useful link I use often has been http://www.e30ic.com/default.htm Sticky? Maybe. But I will update this first page and keep as many facts on cabrios as possible. Anybody else have any input? Needing new leathers! I bought these seats from leatherseats.com for my MT2 project and thought they were wonderful. I do recommend as they have several options including full leather/leatherette, two tone, or even front or back. Give them a call and they will help you out as they have done for me. My turn around was about 3 weeks. If you need a swatch, they will do that as well. I bought mine thru ebay. Here is mine installed. Cabrio suspension. This is a long thread with lots of good information of height adjustment http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=96461 Cheers

ANSWER 1 (id: 1224_3):
Originally posted by CrusherCurtis Excellent idea. Just got my Mtech vert and the power top and lid both work, but top doesn't fold properly :-( Alignment possibly? Nice MTech btw. :nice:

ANSWER 2 (id: 1224_5):
Originally posted by CrusherCurtis Excellent idea. Just got my Mtech vert and the power top and lid both work, but top doesn't fold properly :-( It depends on were its not properly folding. If its in the fabric, yes, possible straps but like mine, my window folds weird to the point it may crack the plastic if I wasn't careful and fold it correctly. This is not a strap problem.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1224_9):
Originally posted by GCMARK I've got a Windblokker... It's awesome, kills almost all of the wind and you can't beat the price. If you have any pix mounted, that would help this thread. :up: