QUESTION ID: 867

QUESTION:
Here's the application: e30 M52 Pink top injectors Full OBD1 conversion (valve cover, intake manifold, wiring harness, red label with tune, vanos, all sensors etc etc.) Here's the problem: The car cranks strong but won't start unless the throttle is almost totally open. Once it starts, it only runs for 20 or so seconds while I have the throttle open; then it spits and sputters and dies. Sounds/smells/feels like it's dumping too much gas. Here's what I know: The spark plugs are slightly damp after starting and they have a faint smell of gasoline. Open header O2 sensor isn't plugged in (although I don't think it would be causing SUCH an issue just trying to get it to idle) I'm sure I left out some other details but I'm hoping someone can point me in a direction because I don't know where to start. I want to know if I should continue buttoning things up to see if it makes it better, or if I should start tearing things apart to see what's wrong... All input is welcome but please don't be a dick. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 867_1):
I would check simple things first, all vacuum lines, idle control valve, MAF etc.. plug in the o2 sensor, does it have any fault codes if you do the stomp test?

ANSWER 2 (id: 867_2):
Could be dumping so much fuel too much fuel to the point that the plugs are too wet to spark. do you have an adjustable fpr? Check the ignition system too, maybe there's no spark. Did you redo the timing? Check the icv too, since it will fire up with the throttle open.

ANSWER 3 (id: 867_4):
try unplugging your airflow meter and see if it gets better.. if it runs well with the airflow meter un plugged you have a bad airflow meter... check the signal hose to the fuel pressure regulator for fuel odor... if the vacuum hose smells like fuel your diaphram in the fpr is perforated and leaking into your intake through the hose... get a dmm on the tps and ect ... make sure that you have the 5v refrence voltage and that the sensors are functioning as intended ... get a haynes manual and go over your wiring and sensors to make sure they are working correctly the biggest thing i see in these swaps is folks leaving sensors unplugged ... the dme needs all the info it can get to work correctly... as if it was in the car it came from :-) I am an ASE master tech.. ive been in the business for 37 years and work for bmw... no one is really going to be able to accurately diagnose your car on a forum like this with the info you have given unless they get lucky and guess correctly... if a few checks dont get to the root of the problem bring it to someone who can diagnose and repair it... who knows wiring... you may have bad power connections or ground connections to the dme... look up power and ground supply voltage drop testing and make sure the powers and grounds do not have voltage drops ... JAK

ANSWER 4 (id: 867_6):
Cps could be bad or the little holt holding it in could be lose or not there causing that Also check to make sure you didn’t somehow clock your harmonic balancer wrong of the key way falls out