QUESTION ID: 3185

QUESTION:
Hey all.... Tell my why I feel so hated on when I talk about this car... I know its not a manual... but the transmission is in great shape after 243k. I just had the tranny serviced. Nothing in the pan. no broken seals or other issues... whats to hate? Besides the auto... its an m20. lets chat

ANSWER 1 (id: 3185_0):
I've gotten a ton of hate for swapping mine. I really don't know why, the car is a ton of fun. If anyone is giving you shit, just tell them that you like it, or to go screw themselves.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3185_1):
I have had my automatic for 17 years ,I liked it so much I bought another car last year ,My first car has near 400,000 miles and shifts so smoothly it is hard to tell,nothing better in the bad traffic here.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3185_10):
It's tough on R3v. People will trash you if you come here with an auto question or comment. I don't get it. If you live a a big city with heavy traffic then an auto is making life with an E30 enjoyable. This world is big enough for both manual and auto E30s.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3185_11):
Originally posted by flyboyx wait.....wut? you took out a 5 speed and swapped in an auto????? Originally posted by MrBurgundy WUT If you really swapped an auto for a manual, you're about to hear some shit lol. People give you shit about having an auto because you own a car that is all about the driving experience. When you have an automagic tranny, it takes away a significant part of the driving experience. In other words, autos are NO NO NO NO, I got hate for doing an engine swap on my E30, its manual, I swear.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3185_12):
Who cares? If the car makes you happy, why should you care if it's not to someone else's preferences? Auto, manual. Sedan, coupe. Bronzit, Alpine White...don't worry so much about what you have. Think about what it could be. Just have fun with it and drive it into the ground.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3185_13):
People who hate on automatic e30s mostly haven't even driven them. They aren't bad especially for commuting. The m20 has like no power anyway so losing a couple to automagic is fine

ANSWER 7 (id: 3185_3):
Originally posted by McGyver So you're sad because someone on the internet doesn't like your car? Pretty sure he wasn't happy that he had to service his tranny.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3185_4):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Pretty sure he wasn't happy that he had to service his tranny. I guess his real question was, "why I feel so hated on when I talk about this car..." I guess the answer is that OP either has thin skin or is insecure about owning an auto.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3185_6):
Originally posted by Appleseason I've gotten a ton of hate for swapping mine. I really don't know why, the car is a ton of fun. If anyone is giving you shit, just tell them that you like it, or to go screw themselves. wait.....wut? you took out a 5 speed and swapped in an auto?????

ANSWER 10 (id: 3185_7):
Originally posted by flyboyx wait.....wut? you took out a 5 speed and swapped in an auto????? WUT If you really swapped an auto for a manual, you're about to hear some shit lol. People give you shit about having an auto because you own a car that is all about the driving experience. When you have an automagic tranny, it takes away a significant part of the driving experience. In other words, autos are

ANSWER 11 (id: 3185_9):
Well your first mistake is caring what random people on the internet think about your car. Your second mistake is caring what random people on the internet think about your car and then admitting it to those same people. However I do like my little 325i auto. I find it just as pleasurable to drive as my 5 speed, but in a different way. That being said its only a matter of time before I get 3 pedals in there.