QUESTION ID: 3526

QUESTION:
So I'm writing this on behalf of a close friend, its quite along story but Ill give you the basics. Im not ready to use any names so if you are familiar with this story which many of us around here are please refrain from using any names in the comments. So in the middle of 2014 my friend contacted a very reputable and well known shop here in northern california who claim to specialize in E30s and asked them to build him an s52 for his already swapped e30. The shop is very well known in the Norcal E30 scene.They agreed on a price just over 11k to do a full from scratch engine build. I know 11k is a lot of money for a motor but he planned on keeping the car for many years and wanted to pass it down to his son when he was of driving age (No thats no sob story totally real). The S50 that was already in the car had a rod knock and He just wanted to make sure this was done right. The shop told him they were very qualified and would love to take on the engine build. He gave them the car and a few months later picked it up. Right from the get go the motor just felt flat and weak, but he kept driving it thinking it just might need to break in a bit. A few weeks later the engine was dumping large amounts of oil into the intake. The shop recommended a catch can. A few more weeks went by and the catch can was filling with oil every week or so. The car started to run very badly. He took it back to the shop and they found some issues in the valve train. They had the car for almost 7 months and kept giving him the run around about what was taking so long. My friend had to buy a bunch of parts and gaskets to get the car fixed but eventually again after about 7 months and a lot of complaining he got the car back. The car seemed to run ok at best. Aging the motor felt very weak but the issue of oil in the intake seemed to be fixed. Soon after the car started blowing large blue clouds out the exhaust. My friend had just kind of had it at this point. He took the car to one of the top notch bmws shops in the area and had them do a leakdown and compression check. He still has the numbers but it had low compression in all 6 cylinders and an absolutely terrible leak down across the board. At this point he had kind of had it. He again contacted the shop who built the motor and explained the issue, they made a bunch of excuses and blew him off, this went on for months. The shop were very unprofessional and refused to make this right. My friend grew more and more upset. He spent top dollar on this engine and at this point the motor was just junk. After hitting a wall with the shop He contacted the Bureau of automotive repair and explained the case. They recommended taking the shop to court and thats what my friend did. The shop agreed to settle in court for $7500 and a court order for payment was put in place. I told him to ask for the full amount but he just wanted it done. My friend has got half the money and the shop will not pay the other half. The shop claim they do not have the money but it seems like total BS. The shop are very involved in social media and business seems to be thriving. It appears things are going very well. I know they have just purchased a quite valuable e30 from another e30 junkie (I have inside info on this deal). My friend just wants his money and for this to be over. So heres my thing. I have two things id like to hopefully accomplish but not sure how. First off Id like to bring an end to this nightmare for my friend and get his money. Any info or help would be much appreciated. And second id like to share this story but I'm not sure how. I feel this story should be shared but again Im nor sure how to do that. I certainly don't want to spit a bunch hateful opinionated BS but I do feel simply telling the facts here and the name of the parties involved is something that should happen. I feel this community should know who this shop is and how they operate but i worry the minute I open my mouth and say a name the thread will be locked. I don't want to slander anyone or get in any debates but you guys should know. So what can I do, what can I say and how should I say it. Advice will be greatly appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3526_0):
I have been in the loop with this whole ordeal as well and it's frustrating to see from a supposed top tier company that is highly regarded in the e30 community (also not going to name anyone at this time since it's not my place). I have had my e30 for about 12 years now and I have always regarded the community as a tight knit group with people who look out for one other. I have met some of my closest friends through my car, which goes to show how much respect we have for each other and the time, effort, money, blood, sweat, etc. that it has taken to build up the projects we love. To see a close friend's pride and joy ruined and disrespected in the way that it was and to see him go through this situation with the company has been painful to say the least. The workmanship was extremely poor from the breather hose connection to the installation of the intake tube to a bolt held in on the back of an alternator with some type of mold. How do I know this? I helped fix these poorly thought out solutions. I would expect any company or vendor to stand behind their work and make right what has been damaged, destroyed, or broken. With your reputation on the line, wouldn't that be the right thing to do? This is not the first case of poor work or products that I have heard of from this company from other local friends. I am speaking from an outsider's perspective and ultimately I would hope that this company would do the right thing and help out a loyal customer from their community that trusted them with his car. I just hope that others don't have to endure the same in the future.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3526_1):
Definitely put a better business bureau complaint in. And in my opinion this shop should be treated like any other person or shop that sells bad goods/services here on this site. Ban and put up a warning thread to make it aware that this CAN happen to you if you choose to go to this shop.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3526_10):
I'm very interested too. I've had my fair share of shitty shops promise nice work (and charge for it accordingly) yet end up with shit work on my e30. Seriously made me wanna throw in the towel and sell it for this reason alone. OP your really not doing anyone any favors by holding back your info. IJS

ANSWER 4 (id: 3526_2):
If you have a court order and they owe you money, I say foreclose on them. Bring the cops and start carrying things out of their shop. I remember hearing a few years ago about a bank owing someone money and that person foreclosing on the bank. They brought the police with them and started emptying the desks and computers out of the bank as payment. A check for the full amount owed showed up within 30 minutes. I would seek out a solution like that, you might even end up getting on the local news, which might also be another way to shed light on the problem, Channel 7 on-your-side or something of the like. As for telling the story, I hope you have pictures of all of the problems as well as the leak down and compression tests run by the other mechanics. You should write out the whole thing with as much evidence as can be presented. Publish it anywhere you can across the internet but only after you've been paid. That's if you really want to draw this out even more. Otherwise, get the money and walk away, sometimes it's simply not worth fighting any more than that.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3526_3):
I'm glad I saw this thread...I've been in the market for a rebuilt Getrag 260 and a set of cleaned and matched injectors. I put myself on a notification list for a tranny 2 months ago and no movement yet. Same with the set of injectors. I got an iffy feeling about this shop after talking to them 2 or 3 times...makes me wonder what they have been doing for two months. Call me crazy, but I bought a rebuilt tranny at the dealer...a grand more but I've got BMW standing behind it. I'll look elsewhere for the injectors, maybe get the new improved ones.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3526_4):
Originally posted by rabbitude He took the car to one of the top notch bmws shops in the area and had them do a leakdown and compression check. I did a compression test on said engine and was not bad. it wasn't high but it wasn't low. After seeing the oil issue, i advised the owner that i feel that the valve seals have gone bad from the length of time the engine was apart. yes, the owner is due the full amount of money and some local shop can rebuild another s52 for him and i will gladly swap it in for him. I really like both people in this case. both have been nothing but nice, polite, friendly to me and while i hate poor business practices and payment is due. venting it here is not the proper place. let the courts handle this is a civil way. nothing good will come from posting negativity about a legal case.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3526_5):
Originally posted by mbonder If you have a court order and they owe you money, I say foreclose on them. Bring the cops and start carrying things out of their shop. I remember hearing a few years ago about a bank owing someone money and that person foreclosing on the bank. They brought the police with them and started emptying the desks and computers out of the bank as payment. A check for the full amount owed showed up within 30 minutes. I would seek out a solution like that, you might even end up getting on the local news, which might also be another way to shed light on the problem, Channel 7 on-your-side or something of the like. As for telling the story, I hope you have pictures of all of the problems as well as the leak down and compression tests run by the other mechanics. You should write out the whole thing with as much evidence as can be presented. Publish it anywhere you can across the internet but only after you've been paid. That's if you really want to draw this out even more. Otherwise, get the money and walk away, sometimes it's simply not worth fighting any more than that. That story was about a Bank of America here in Naples, FL. It was pretty amusing to see considering it usually works the other way around.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3526_6):
Originally posted by Cabriolet I did a compression test on said engine and was not bad. it wasn't high but it wasn't low. After seeing the oil issue, i advised the owner that i feel that the valve seals have gone bad from the length of time the engine was apart. yes, the owner is due the full amount of money and some local shop can rebuild another s52 for him and i will gladly swap it in for him. I really like both people in this case. both have been nothing but nice, polite, friendly to me and while i hate poor business practices and payment is due. venting it here is not the proper place. let the courts handle this is a civil way. nothing good will come from posting negativity about a legal case. He had another check done a few weeks after by a shop in campbell, I there when he picked it up. The guy basically said the numbers were very low, The leak down showed a loss in pressure from the rings. I'm not sure if it got worse since you tested it but oil consumption is up and it blows blue smoke like a hipster vaping. I got an update from my buddy yesterday. I don't want to get into details just yet but he is taking further steps through the courts to try and get this situation solved. My buddy is seriously one of the nicest, kindest dudes I've ever met, People on here who know him will attest to that also.... Which is one of the reasons I feel he has been screwed like this. This ordeal has been going on almost 2 years. This is crazy, an genuine asshole like myself would have got this solved already but this shop have totally taken advantage of his kind nature. Its really sad this has had to go this far. Theres no dispute here, the shop know they've blown it here. Why they won't make this right just blows my mind. In a small tight community such as this reputation is everything. We all make mistakes sometimes, it happens. But in a situation like this not righting this wrong and dragging this great guy through this mess for almost two years is tragic.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3526_8):
Originally posted by Cabriolet e. venting it here is not the proper place. let the courts handle this is a civil way. nothing good will come from posting negativity about a legal case. I would respectfully disagree. This is the reason we have transaction feedback threads. If its true, I would like to be warned of poor customer service. I do my research before I buy here. I dont live over there so its almost impossible I will ever be near whatever shop did this, but if it were near me, Id be reading all the reviews about their practices. And I dont think its about the legal case. Its about the business practices they chose to stand by.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3526_9):
I don't even live on that Coast, but I'd be willing to bet I know what shop this is, just from stalking various parts of this forum. I shall keep my thoughts to myself, until OP let's the cat out of the bag. Anyone else have an idea? We could start a pool.