QUESTION ID: 2927

QUESTION:
So I just got on the island of Oahu last week. My car isn't here yet. Should arrive around the 5th of October. I know there are a few Island based R3V members floating around. If you are here, speak up and say what island you are on. Looking to get some meets together. And mods, I motion for a Hawaii sub-forum in the Regional section. All in favor?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2927_10):
Originally posted by ainadude ... welcome to the 50th State. As far as I know, fporro and I are the only Hawaii members. Oddly enough, we both have Euro bumper-converted cars -- mine's a nice white 325is w/an M3 interior; his is an early gray convertible with some uber-cool under-the-hood tweaks. Anybody else call Hawaii home? I've seen a few other Hawaii members on here. Can't recall the names though. If you see a flat black, plastic bumper sedan that is dumped and loud as fuck running around, that's me. I will be rocking Cali plates. Originally posted by phreshkid lucky jerks. enjoy that classy year round weather joe, oh yeah, i changed the car quite a bit since i got it, well, kinda. Lets see what you have done. Post pics man. Originally posted by Red88 My mom's there right now. In Kailua. My auntie may rent you a room there. I'll ask if you want. My mom gets a job on Molokai next summer and I might be there with her. I've been accepted to the school of Warriors, and I might be going there next year. I appreciate the offer, but it's my wife, our son and myself. So we would need more than a room. But if your aunt owns any rentals that way, let me know.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2927_11):
Yo Mililani here. We should do an Oahu meet up some day... our numbers seem to be very few and wide. ;) And I'm definitely in favor of a Hawaii sub. -Grif

ANSWER 3 (id: 2927_12):
^ Sounds good to me. BTW, we saw an E30 M3 pulling into the Auto-X at Aloha stadium this morning. It was a clean Delphin Graü. Has anyone seen this car around?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2927_2):
Originally posted by Alkasquawlik Waikiki is fun. How's the island life treating you? Waikiki is way to damn crowded though. And thus far, it hasn't been bad. Originally posted by Dirtbleed I motion for your address so we can crash on your couch for free. Sure, just look for the van, DOWN BY THE RIVER!!!!!!!!!!! Seriously though, still house hunting.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2927_4):
Oahu is over crowded but thats the price for paradise. Check out 4NOBJECTS. Im not a member there but they got some e30s in their club. Welcome to the 50th state btw.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2927_5):
Aloha ... ... welcome to the 50th State. As far as I know, fporro and I are the only Hawaii members. Oddly enough, we both have Euro bumper-converted cars -- mine's a nice white 325is w/an M3 interior; his is an early gray convertible with some uber-cool under-the-hood tweaks. Anybody else call Hawaii home?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2927_8):
My mom's there right now. In Kailua. My auntie may rent you a room there. I'll ask if you want. My mom gets a job on Molokai next summer and I might be there with her. I've been accepted to the school of Warriors, and I might be going there next year.