QUESTION ID: 1550

QUESTION:
Hi, I have found a fairly nice condition automatic 325ix, its 170k kms, clean interiors and owner put a lot of money on maintenance recently. However, its lower control arms are in bad condition which needs to replaced. The car was pretty slow being an auto and also had no power steering. At the moment, I am considering doing a manual swap for the car. A shop nearby me has quoted 3k+ cad for the job parts/labour. Do you guys think its a reasonable price for the swap? Also, is it possible to put a lower ratio steering rack on the ix and finally is it a lot more difficult to maintain ix version? I am planning to use it as a daily driver and also considering a cross country road trip on it. Please let me know if I haven't lost my mind or anything about achieving all of these goals with the e30ix. Thanks, ice

ANSWER 1 (id: 1550_0):
$3000 sounds cheap - I assume that doesn't include any parts? Is this shop actually familiar with the 325ix, or E30s in general? Have they ever done such a swap before? They know how to wire it properly (it's actually simple, but can be screwed up)? If it doesn't include parts, that might be the hardest thing of this swap, especially now as ix's aren't exactly plentiful in wrecking yards. It's been 14 years since I swapped mine so my memory isn't perfect, but you definitely need the transmission, a transfercase (which itself is a bit of a can of worms), and shifter linkage. The pedals/pedal box depends on if you have an airbag or non-airbag car (potentially you can just swap pedals, like I did), and you'll need the extra clutch sensors for ABS and cruise control. The rest of it is just standard E30 manual parts for the most part, and you don't need different driveshafts. I don't think you're crazy, but consider if you *really* like the ix specifically and if you intend to keep it for a very long time. It wasn't super easy to do this 14 years ago when you could (more or less) easily find a parts car to scavenge, but now everything will both cost more and be harder to find. regarding the steering rack, what faster ratio rack are you talking about? The one converted from the X3? An ix is basically just as reliable as any E30 (assuming the 30 years of maintenance has not been neglected), I daily drove mine for more than a decade and still drive it often now. But consider how much easier and cheaper it (might) be to trade it for a RWD, manual E30 325i.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1550_1):
Thanks Nando for the informative post. I have found the part for it from a wreck shop ( transmission, transfer case and driveshaft). The shop I spoke to have done this kind of job before. For steering rack, I was referring to Z3/e36 steering, I have driven those e30s before and they feel really nimble on corners so wanted to do that mod as well.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1550_2):
You don't need to change the driveshaft, they are the same for auto and manual, but if it's cheap get it as a spare. Also, front strut housings if they're available and not rusted away..