QUESTION ID: 1239

QUESTION:
Help. I just bought a 325ic with electromechanical top. The Top didn't work and i was told it was stuck in the up position. I dropped it off at my local BMW shop and they said expect UP TO a 6K or more bill if someone tries to fix it. YIKES! I cannot believe it is that hard to work on. So - I drop by the Dealer and they tell me it could be up to 10K or more.Is there a repair manual that targets the electric top?I've tried Haynes, the Restoration Bible, and the Service Manual by Bently - not helpful! Are these tops that bad? Should I convert it to a manual, and forget the electrical up/downs. Are these parts available anywhere - Thanks,

ANSWER 1 (id: 1239_0):
Originally posted by Catboxer Help. I just bought a 325ic with electromechanical top. The Top didn't work and i was told it was stuck in the up position. I dropped it off at my local BMW shop and they said expect UP TO a 6K or more bill if someone tries to fix it. YIKES! I cannot believe it is that hard to work on. So - I drop by the Dealer and they tell me it could be up to 10K or more.Is there a repair manual that targets the electric top?I've tried Haynes, the Restoration Bible, and the Service Manual by Bently - not helpful! Are these tops that bad? Should I convert it to a manual, and forget the electrical up/downs. Are these parts available anywhere - Thanks, there is a sticky write up on replacing the top just above with pics. i'd go through it carefully. some parts are now hard to source, a few may be nla. ecs tuning has also has a write up and links to the original bmw repair videos.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1239_1):
I’m going through the same issue. I bought the hardware to lift the boot cover but I think it’s out of timing. Top motors work just out of sequence. I don’t mind putting the top down but the boot isn’t secured And can fly up like a hood. I’m looking for someone that can fix for a reasonable price

ANSWER 3 (id: 1239_2):
Originally posted by e30crazie I’m going through the same issue. I bought the hardware to lift the boot cover but I think it’s out of timing. Top motors work just out of sequence. I don’t mind putting the top down but the boot isn’t secured And can fly up like a hood. I’m looking for someone that can fix for a reasonable price There is a procedure for synching the EM top operation. Posted in many places on the internet. Many people say it's easy to do. I could never get it to work. After paying shops twice for the sych ($500 each time, 15-20 years ago), I just went manual when another part broke. If you want to pay someone to synch it, find an old school BMW indy shop.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1239_3):
I've been operating my electromechanical top manually for several years. You can pop out the motor on the tonneau mechanism easily, pop out the convertible top motor easily and then move the top up and down manually with one person. When the top is in the down position you should reengage the tonneau cover motor/gear so it won't pop up unexpectedly. I was able to hardwire a 12v source directly to the tonneau motor to push the tonneau all the way down. I use a cordless drill battery and a couple of wire leads clipped to the motor. It works for me the few times a year I move the top up and down.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1239_4):
Originally posted by Dspill I've been operating my electromechanical top manually for several years. You can pop out the motor on the tonneau mechanism easily, pop out the convertible top motor easily and then move the top up and down manually with one person. When the top is in the down position you should reengage the tonneau cover motor/gear so it won't pop up unexpectedly. I was able to hardwire a 12v source directly to the tonneau motor to push the tonneau all the way down. I use a cordless drill battery and a couple of wire leads clipped to the motor. It works for me the few times a year I move the top up and down. I have been thinking of doing that myself. Giving the boot some power and engaging with a toggle switch. But my dream is obviously to get that thing working as it was designed. But maybe its only a dream lol. I will try to give it power once the rain stops.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1239_5):
I agree with you, but the cost/benefit for a few operations per season just isn't there for me...maybe when I have more time. I 3D printed an adapter that fits on my drill battery and added a 3-way toggle switch that I can use to move the tonneau up and down if necessary. I actually only use it to close the tonneau the last half inch so it's shut tightly when the top is down.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1239_6):
Update. I ended up sourcing another top frame because the one I had was bent, I guess from over torqueing by the prior owner, and I ended up breaking one of the ribs. I converted it to a mech only top - works great but it was very hard to find a frame - had to get a used one and it was a little loose from years of wear/tear.