QUESTION ID: 1272

QUESTION:
Yes, I did search and noticed there are not any recent threads pertaining to my question, so I figured thoughts and opinions might have changed since what I have read through in the older threads here and on other forums. I am in the process of upgrading the suspension on my ’89 325iC because the previous owner lowered the car to the point that the pinch welds on the frame rails were a little more than 2” above the ground, a true low rider made just for super flat roads void of any bumps whatsoever. Before I purchased it, the vehicle sat in a garage for more than 5 years and the struts and shocks are completely worn out from the SPAX lowering coil springs. I have purchased new Koni sport adjustable struts and shocks, H&R sport springs, and all the other related components to refresh these parts of the suspension. While I was disassembling I noticed the tie rod ball joints, control arm ball joints, control arm bushings, and sway bar links are also in need of replacement. I figured while I am doing all this I might as well plan to do the bushings for the sway bars, so I pulled them out as well. I wanted to check to see if the PO did any swapping of the sway bars so I measured them with some calipers and they are both stock 21mm front and 12mm rear. I would like the convertible to handle better in corners and maybe an occasional autocross from time to time than the stock setup and also understand it will never handle like a coupe, which leads me to my question… What is the best size sway bar upgrade without creating under or oversteer? I don’t want this thread to turn into a brand war thread about these are the cheapest or best price, these are hollow vs solid, etc… I am just interested in what the thoughts are for the best sizes for front and rear. I know the convertible has the largest stock front sway bar at 21mm, is this size ideal or is going larger going to improve the handling? I also know the M-Technic, iX and M all have 14.5mm rear sway bars. I see a lot of different sizes offered for the rear like 16mm, 18mm, 19mm, and 22mm. What is the ideal size rear sway bar? If upgrading and increasing the size of the sway bar for the front or rear is there a point at which reinforcements are needed, like going with a 14.5mm rear sway bar does not require reinforcements and XXmm will, same for the front sway bar? I am not building a race car, I just want to improve the handling of the convertible because I want a convertible. I am writing this as a reference for anyone with the same question about sway bars without having to read through 48 pages of posts in The Cabrio Suspension Thread that are just bullet points about the specs and modifications others have made. Thanks in advance

ANSWER 1 (id: 1272_1):
I am interested too. I noticed a big improvement in handling on my Miata with a larger front swaybar. It would be nice to have a little bit less body roll on my e30 without having to sacrifice ride quality.