QUESTION ID: 462

QUESTION:
So as some of you might have noticed the radio on the E30 is sticking out ~7mm from the heater control trim panel. I found a picture on Instagram that showed the radio sitting flush with the heater control panel, turned out it's possible to mount the radio flush by using a 3D printed adapter So I went ahead and measured the heater control panel and my radio and began designing an adapter piece. Couple hours later and I have a first prototype. I made some small adjustments on the model after fitting it the first time. Test fitted the switches and OBC and it all looks good. Originally my original radio (Bavaria C Business) is clamped on the ridge of the heater control panel. However for the radio to fit deeper this must be removed. I used a flush cutting plier to remove the bulk of material and a file to clean it up further. A Dremel should also do the job. 3D print fitted, using the upper screw of the heater control knob and both OBC screws. (I had to use a longer M3 bolt) At this time I didn't fit the OBC yet (prototype pictured) but it's possible to use the original screws for the OBC. How everything turned out Picture of how it looked before ​

ANSWER 1 (id: 462_0):
Bravo. Looks nice and period correct. HiFi for me, tho! I was actually looking at this to replace my kenwood and achieve the same look but with the ability to keep my amp and use new media. Retro Car Stereo Radio Blaupunkt Bremen SQR 46 DAB USB Mp3 SD Bluetooth A2dp for sale online | eBay https://www.ebay.com/p/12034909144 Find many great new & used options and get the best deals for Retro Car Stereo Radio Blaupunkt Bremen SQR 46 DAB USB Mp3 SD Bluetooth A2dp at the best online prices at eBay! Free shipping for many products!

ANSWER 2 (id: 462_1):
Originally posted by E30Bastard Bravo. Looks nice and period correct. HiFi for me, tho! I was actually looking at this to replace my kenwood and achieve the same look but with the ability to keep my amp and use new media. https://www.ebay.com/p/12034909144 Thanks! It's the original radio according to the options list. I actually don't listen a lot to the radio, I prefer the engine noise :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 462_10):
Originally posted by D.Martijn Thanks! It didn't bother me that much but seeing a picture of the radio that's sitting flush I was immediately convinced! And I've got it in with the Porsche classic radio. MUCH better look.

ANSWER 4 (id: 462_11):
Originally posted by D.Martijn I posted my model up on Printables, if some of you want to download it.. go a head :) I do want to add, if someone has a 3D model with the 1DIN cut out's please send it to me, i'd like to add them into my model to accepts more models. thanks! https://www.printables.com/model/722...ount-the-radio So will the E30 Radio Adapter _BMW 65121375737 file work with a single DIN aftermarket sleeve? I'll give it a try and report back if you think it will work.

ANSWER 5 (id: 462_12):
Originally posted by BSAmarc So will the E30 Radio Adapter _BMW 65121375737 file work with a single DIN aftermarket sleeve? I'll give it a try and report back if you think it will work. I'm not sure as I haven't had a lot of feedback yet regarding the aftermarket fit. Would be great if you're willing to test this out! thanks

ANSWER 6 (id: 462_13):
Well, I finally got to the point of mounting the radio using the E30 Radio Adapter _BMW 65121375737​ file and it worked out perfectly. The only issue I would stress to anyone looking to do this is that, in the past, removing the HVAC console is usually really simple _if_ you leave the temp control and vent sliders in the dash. With this part in place however, this becomes near impossible due to the mounting screw behind the temp adjustment control. I'm apologizing ahead of time to whomever attempts to take apart the console on my car as I'm sure they'll have no way to figure out how to get it out using standard instructions and will break something. But it looks awesome👍🏻

ANSWER 7 (id: 462_4):
Originally posted by Panici This looks great! Nice work. Will you be selling these? Or if not, sharing the 3D printing file? Thank you! I found out about this mod from a guy on Instagram that was selling these for 45€ but apparently lower his price to 30€. His models does has the (what I think are) 1DIN cut out's to mount other radios as well. I tried searching for a 3D file with these kind of cut outs so I can add them in my model as well but so far no luck. I have no problem with sharing the file once completed with said cut outs.

ANSWER 8 (id: 462_6):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Someone finally solved one of the biggest pet peeves of mine. That looks MUCH better. Thanks! It didn't bother me that much but seeing a picture of the radio that's sitting flush I was immediately convinced!

ANSWER 9 (id: 462_7):
I posted my model up on Printables, if some of you want to download it.. go a head :) I do want to add, if someone has a 3D model with the 1DIN cut out's please send it to me, i'd like to add them into my model to accepts more models. thanks! BMW E30 - adapter to flush mount the radio by Martijn Demeulemeester | Download free STL model | Printables.com https://www.printables.com/model/722227-bmw-e30-adapter-to-flush-mount-the-radio

ANSWER 10 (id: 462_9):
Originally posted by D.Martijn Thank you! I found out about this mod from a guy on Instagram that was selling these for 45€ but apparently lower his price to 30€. His models does has the (what I think are) 1DIN cut out's to mount other radios as well. I tried searching for a 3D file with these kind of cut outs so I can add them in my model as well but so far no luck. I have no problem with sharing the file once completed with said cut outs. Thanks again!!! I downloaded the files and printed them on Xometry For others, this is the site that sells some other goodies (takes original radios and adds Bluetooth which is great): https://bmw-radios.com/ . Really cool for those looking to keep the original radio and add Bluetooth to it. Their microphone that fits into one of the blanks above the radio is perfect too.