QUESTION ID: 1560

QUESTION:
Hi folks. My first post here, so hello to everyone. I have a 1988 325ix coupe that I've owned since 2018. I love the car but I was recently t-boned on the right front side. As a result, my front passenger strut tube was bent, throwing the camber off pretty bad on that side. Everything else looks fine (other than the ruined fender, which I've replaced), so I'm looking to swap the strut housing/assembly. They seem really, really hard to find used, and new I've not found them for less than $1700. Does anyone have a used one they can sell me? And before anyone asks - yes, I've thought about going with weld-in coilovers, and I can weld, but the tube is bent all the way down at the bottom, where it meets the knuckle. It would be difficult to get the correct geometry back.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1560_0):
If you are very unlucky and can't find one locally / in the US. There are a couple for sale in Germany.. https://www.ebay-kleinanzeigen.de/s-...x-federbein/k0https://www.ebay-kleinanzeigen.de/s-...x-federbein/k0

ANSWER 2 (id: 1560_1):
If you go coilovers and GC camber plates you can adjust for any small mistakes you make in angle. It's not that difficult though. Get a RWD strut, cut the tube off, mount the shock in the tube with the collar, place on ix knuckle, tack 4 times, disassemble, final welding. IX strut tubes are thicker than RWD strut tubes, so you'll get a nice little lip to weld on to.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1560_2):
I agree with Kershaw. The strut can be repaired, I have modified/repaired ix struts on a few occasions. Even have the 48mmx1.0mm tap to make the internal threads and keep the correct size tubing in stock at the shop. Any fabricator worth their salt could tackle that for far less than $1700.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1560_3):
Originally posted by Kershaw If you go coilovers and GC camber plates you can adjust for any small mistakes you make in angle. It's not that difficult though. Get a RWD strut, cut the tube off, mount the shock in the tube with the collar, place on ix knuckle, tack 4 times, disassemble, final welding. IX strut tubes are thicker than RWD strut tubes, so you'll get a nice little lip to weld on to. Brilliant. That I can do no problem. Was hoping it would be this simple. While I have you guys, what is the optimal cheapish-but-good coil setup around here? Which coilovers are people using?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1560_4):
Originally posted by lefthookz Brilliant. That I can do no problem. Was hoping it would be this simple. While I have you guys, what is the optimal cheapish-but-good coil setup around here? Which coilovers are people using? Oh, and I assume internal diameters are the same from IX strut tube to RWD strut tube? shock inserts are therefore interchangeable?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1560_5):
The internal diameter is the same. It's the outer diameter that is different. IX strut tubes are thicker. Your options for coilovers are ground control or diy.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1560_6):
Originally posted by Kershaw The internal diameter is the same. It's the outer diameter that is different. IX strut tubes are thicker. Your options for coilovers are ground control or diy. Thanks again - I was able to source an IX strut housing.