QUESTION ID: 2901

QUESTION:
Hello amigos. Im new in this forum and looking for some experienced minds giving me some tips and advices for my project. Im complete beginner in upgrading cars, however my close friend has done it all hes life, and with hes guidance I want to start and learn about starting my own project. However i can't decide what i really want to do. Two options are e30 or e60 535i. I have to admit that I love both of these cars, however old e30 is closer to my heart. My concerns for me is that e60 might be too hard to make as a project as its way more complicated than old e30, more expensive parts, electricity and wiring, computer, etc.etc. Can you guys give me some tips on what should I do? Better go and spend the e60 cash and build decent e30 for that? Will it be easier than building e60 into something? Thank you in advance.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2901_0):
Question for the german guys, How much is the registration (tax) and insurance for an old car (like the e30) vs a newer one (the e60). Just curious. Wondering if the government is making your life miserable for owning an older car (obviously pollution).

ANSWER 2 (id: 2901_10):
Originally posted by James Crivellone Having both an E60 and several E30's they are completely different cars in every way shape and form. If I compare my E30 Touring, its light, nimble, fun, you know, what makes an E30 entertaining. It has no creature comforts, its just a momentum car you drive (stock m20b25) The E60 (in my case the M5) is great if you want to be incredibly comfortable and have the ability to toss it around (patiently).. but its still a much bigger 5 series, its no corner carving monster (although its very impressive in its own way) I love them both, but for different reasons.. figure that out and the answer is obvious. One note, repairs, the E60 is not for the faint of heart.. I've invested thousands into BMW Tools (ISTA,DIS,etc) just to pull codes from the thing, and have had to replaces modules (once again at thousands per incident) The car is amazing don't get me wrong, and I would not trade it for anything, but its in a totally level field compared to classic BMW. Hell I still have that stupid SOS Call System Malfunction error pop up on idrive from time to time, need to code that out as its not even supported anymore Thank you for your great answer. I want to go for e30 but ofcourse not leave it as a stock car. I would 100% swap a motor and make it more fun. Ideally i would want turbo e30, but it might cost alot. + getting no rust e30 is the hardest part. Here in europe they dont go as cheap as in US, for close to non rust model i should drop 5k+ cash alone. And then i need to do all the repainting, body work, tires, engine swap, interior upgrade. Idk. Any ideas how much would a motor between 200-300hp turbo would cost me ? And for which motor to go for that power? My friend would help me with motor swap.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2901_2):
Originally posted by svn2002s Question for the german guys, How much is the registration (tax) and insurance for an old car (like the e30) vs a newer one (the e60). Just curious. Wondering if the government is making your life miserable for owning an older car (obviously pollution). I just bought an E36 and the taxes due when registering were... i can’t remember exactly but it was less than 90 euros. This is due yearly. Granted it’s a small four pot M43 motor but i am in a “green city” where emissions are heavily regulated and it still wasn’t much considering its age. My sister-in-law just purchased a 2017 Audi A4 petrol and she pays less than 80 euros a year in taxes. Insurance wise im paying about 550 euros per year. That’s like 46 euros a month for nearly full coverage. Not bad considering i was paying over $150 a month in the states for just liability. (I had a few tickets and am a young dude) I dont have any more info on the subject than that. Im hoping when i bring my e30 over it will be just as affordable to own and run.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2901_3):
Originally posted by agent How is this even a choice? The E6n generation of BMWs are the ugliest cars they ever made. This x10,000. My friend thinks otherwise, I don't know how anyone finds them attractive. They look like rwd camrys or just a higher end camry if you aren't a car person.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2901_5):
Originally posted by e30davie Isn't an e30 like $3000 and an e60 like $30,000? Apples and oranges. For 30k u can get bmw e60 m5. They are above 10 (decent).

ANSWER 6 (id: 2901_7):
The E30 engine bay has so much room to work with. I can't even stick my hand in the E60 engine bay. I'm biased, but the M20 is the most simple and reliable engine to own.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2901_9):
Having both an E60 and several E30's they are completely different cars in every way shape and form. If I compare my E30 Touring, its light, nimble, fun, you know, what makes an E30 entertaining. It has no creature comforts, its just a momentum car you drive (stock m20b25) The E60 (in my case the M5) is great if you want to be incredibly comfortable and have the ability to toss it around (patiently).. but its still a much bigger 5 series, its no corner carving monster (although its very impressive in its own way) I love them both, but for different reasons.. figure that out and the answer is obvious. One note, repairs, the E60 is not for the faint of heart.. I've invested thousands into BMW Tools (ISTA,DIS,etc) just to pull codes from the thing, and have had to replaces modules (once again at thousands per incident) The car is amazing don't get me wrong, and I would not trade it for anything, but its in a totally level field compared to classic BMW. Hell I still have that stupid SOS Call System Malfunction error pop up on idrive from time to time, need to code that out as its not even supported anymore