QUESTION ID: 2703

QUESTION:
So the specs are: (that I know of): '85 325e Brilliantrot coupe beige sport interior seats have cracked leather, and there is a hole / tear in the drivers seat leather with a bit of bolster missing. 300+ kms (Canadian) (oddometer has stopped) 5 speed uncracked dash all BMW oem glass sunroof - mild paint bubbling. starts well might have a vac leak ICV seems to have issues may overheat a bit, or the thermostat is misreading there is rust, but not super bad for a canadian car paint is a 5 or 6 out of 10, maybe a 4 when you include the few rust bubbles and flaking pain on the lips of the wheel arches Don't know if the AC blows cold yet seems to ride a bit high as if the suspension was replaced but not the right suspension was installed, or maybe I'm just used to seeing all the lowered ones on here :) on both the drivers side and passenger side the floor where it meets the wheel arch is either rotted all the way through (passenger) or super soft (driver) full tool kit original bottle caps asking price - $3500 Canadian so about $2600 USD. I want to start a LS swap project into an e30 coupe, preferably a brilliantrot. If you were me, would you pick up this car, or what else would you look for to help make your decision?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2703_0):
So you basically just want the body and interior of an e30? I think that’s a lot of money for what you want, since they’re the worst parts of the car. If you can repair the rust, paint, and redo the interior and stay in your budget with the LS idea, I’d say offer $500 and be okay with paying $1000.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2703_2):
Originally posted by pmollins So the specs are: (that I know of): '85 325e Brilliantrot coupe beige sport interior seats have cracked leather, and there is a hole / tear in the drivers seat leather with a bit of bolster missing. 300+ kms (Canadian) (oddometer has stopped) 5 speed uncracked dash all BMW oem glass sunroof - mild paint bubbling. starts well might have a vac leak ICV seems to have issues may overheat a bit, or the thermostat is misreading there is rust, but not super bad for a canadian car paint is a 5 or 6 out of 10, maybe a 4 when you include the few rust bubbles and flaking pain on the lips of the wheel arches Don't know if the AC blows cold yet seems to ride a bit high as if the suspension was replaced but not the right suspension was installed, or maybe I'm just used to seeing all the lowered ones on here :) on both the drivers side and passenger side the floor where it meets the wheel arch is either rotted all the way through (passenger) or super soft (driver) full tool kit original bottle caps asking price - $3500 Canadian so about $2600 USD. I want to start a LS swap project into an e30 coupe, preferably a brilliantrot. If you were me, would you pick up this car, or what else would you look for to help make your decision? The floor rots should be a big red flag.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2703_6):
thank you all. the lot I saw it at, also gave me pics of the areas that are rusted, one had already been repaired - badly. the more I look at the car, the more i see it's frustrations thanks again