QUESTION ID: 3097

QUESTION:
guys, if we get in a simple wreck then most insurance blue book values for our cars will call it totaled... does anyone have a special insurance package to cover the classic aspect of our cars?? i.e. the new paint job and the thousands of dollars invested? maybe this should be a poll of sorts...

ANSWER 1 (id: 3097_0):
You gotta use the search command my man. This topic has been covered, in extreme depth, lots and lots of time on this forum. The search button is located just below and to the left of your username at the top of the screen.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3097_1):
None of this is the gospel, I am just relating my experience here because I frankly didn't find much actionable info on this topic when I started looking into it... i am having a hard time getting it insured to the value i want it to be... i am not into part outs... just saying. sorry to be a noob here

ANSWER 3 (id: 3097_10):
you have a point sir but I don't have another car to drive. it's my daily for 15 years man.... Yes I do run the risk and I drive it with insane paranoid caution... Never the less... If I could afford another daily I would get one... Sent from my HTC One M9 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3097_11):
while i always maintained the engine and its systems...it used to be just a car that it got me from a to b... dirty, trashed, dinged up, hit and run.. and kid thrashed... then i won the paint job at the picnic and it all changed... i appreciate the feedback from all of you... i am a chef, not a gearhead... lets plan a get together and cook some pig!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3097_12):
Originally posted by chefpeterlevine you have a point sir but I don't have another car to drive. it's my daily for 15 years man.... Yes I do run the risk and I drive it with insane paranoid caution... Never the less... If I could afford another daily I would get one... Sent from my HTC One M9 using Tapatalk Don't worry about some of the comments, everyone likes the chance to fire off the "go find the search bar" jab. I understand how you feel. Let me tell you what I did. I bought my e30 earlier this year with the intent of driving it daily. My commute is short, so rolling up the odometer on my 35k mile 325i wasn't much of a concern. I did, however, want to make sure that if I or someone else were to total my car, I would recoup most of the money I've invested. This is why I use Flo. Through Progressive I have an agreed value policy of $18,000 with a deductible of $2,000, providing $16,000 ($15,100 including the yearly cost of the policy) of coverage for the car plus $200k liability. As a 25 year old with a foul weather accident on my record, I pay $900 a year for this coverage. I think this is pretty damn good deal considering NADA says my car is worth $5,500. Even though I document every receipt, I'd rather not deal with Geico's adjusters and explain to them why NADA is wrong. I'm not even sure offers of $14,000 that I've had in writing would convince them... Additionally, I have a permanent dash cam always recording in my car, even when the ignition is off. I say give Progressive a call. Don't even try with Hagerty, they quoted me at $2,500 a year for a $12k policy. Good luck!

ANSWER 6 (id: 3097_13):
Originally posted by Sail Boat Don't worry about some of the comments, everyone likes the chance to fire off the "go find the search bar" jab. I understand how you feel. Let me tell you what I did. I bought my e30 earlier this year with the intent of driving it daily. My commute is short, so rolling up the odometer on my 35k mile 325i wasn't much of a concern. I did, however, want to make sure that if I or someone else were to total my car, I would recoup most of the money I've invested. This is why I use Flo. Through Progressive I have an agreed value policy of $18,000 with a deductible of $2,000, providing $16,000 ($15,100 including the yearly cost of the policy) of coverage for the car plus $200k liability. As a 25 year old with a foul weather accident on my record, I pay $900 a year for this coverage. I think this is pretty damn good deal considering NADA says my car is worth $5,500. Even though I document every receipt, I'd rather not deal with Geico's adjusters and explain to them why NADA is wrong. I'm not even sure offers of $14,000 that I've had in writing would convince them... Additionally, I have a permanent dash cam always recording in my car, even when the ignition is off. I say give Progressive a call. Don't even try with Hagerty, they quoted me at $2,500 a year for a $12k policy. Good luck! Sailboat, nice to know Progressive offers this for people who more want to daily their cars. I hunted forever looking for someone who would do agreed value, but all the collector policies required a dedicated garage with lots of restrictions. I finally found a small company via a local Farmers agent who help me out. I posted a thread about this here the other day: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=405336 I pay $240 a year with an agreed value of $20K. My policy is cheaper than Sailboats because I have mine for just 3K miles a year and it can't be a daily driver. But it is nice to know that if something happens, I am not going to get shafted by regular insurance coverage.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3097_2):
Step one; go to google.com step two; type in "insurance site:www.r3vlimited.com" step three; hit enter step four; enlighten yourself FYI if you type in anything and then "site:www.r3vlimited.com" it will only pull results from here, obviously.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3097_4):
Or you can hire a reputable third party, even better, suggest it's a classic and have the insurance co. do this. Even after an accident. Especially if you're a claimant. I've expressed my expertise and willingness to help many times on this subject, but some people simply cannot listen to reason from someone who does this for a living. Guess it's better to hear what you want to hear and then lose...

ANSWER 9 (id: 3097_6):
Originally posted by dereliiict Or you can hire a reputable third party, even better, suggest it's a classic and have the insurance co. do this. Even after an accident. Especially if you're a claimant. I've expressed my expertise and willingness to help many times on this subject, but some people simply cannot listen to reason from someone who does this for a living. Guess it's better to hear what you want to hear and then lose... Make a DIY for it, I suspect people would listen then. I'm usually down to hear some useful information, especially on a topic where quality information can be hard to find.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3097_7):
Originally posted by chefpeterlevine thanks guys... this site keeps getting deeper and deeper... so far though... the daily drivers are screwed... the information is here in spades.....X about 1000. we are exorbitantly tired of this same old thread every 2 months. all you have to do is search for it. i just ran a search for "insurance" and came up with literally pages and pages and pages and pages and pages and pages and pages and pages........ all because of noob members that can't figure out how to use that little utility in the top right corner. seriously...how hard is that? all you have to do is quit being a total lazy butt and we will accept you into our fold. it doesn't hurt if you have something to contribute too....... :)

ANSWER 11 (id: 3097_8):
Guys, my tire pressures were wrong and I hit a crub with my dirty30lol. Is 7 degrees of negative camber normal for these cars? I did cut the springs some, but only on the top. Also, how much HPs can I get from my M20 without spending time or money?

ANSWER 12 (id: 3097_9):
Originally posted by chefpeterlevine the daily drivers are screwed... Step one: stop using a 25 year old collectable car as a farkin' daily driver. Otherwise, you are running the risk of it being destroyed every time you leave the house. At this point, it's like racing - if you can't afford to push it off a cliff, don't daily drive it.