QUESTION ID: 1959

QUESTION:
Just spotted at junkyard. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1959_1):
Holy shit my guy. The whole interior, the valve cover, cow catcher and idk what wheels those are, but any 4x100 wheel for an e30 can sell for a bit of money. I'd take a closer look at the engine, to see if there's any more goodies on it.. Take a pic of the exhaust manifold

ANSWER 2 (id: 1959_12):
Yeah junkyards around here don't let you to take the whole car either, I asked them about that once upon a time. They're also officially "destroyed" when they hit the junkyard. From what I've seen lately these days when an E30 hits the junkyards around here all that's left is an incomplete floor pan and a firewall by the time people are done with it. It's insane that that intact car is in a junkyard, the person truly did not know what they had, those fairly nice sport seats alone would fetch more than any junkyard will pay you for a car these days and they probably could have put it online for a couple grand running or not and had it gone in a couple of days.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1959_3):
Originally posted by AWDBOB sheeeeeeesh it's wild that something like that can still end up in a junk yard buy the whole car and pay for a few months of bills parting it out that right there. i'd have bought that whole car in a heartbeat.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1959_5):
Damn, that thing looks repairable! Assuming you can't buy the whole car, get the Valve Cover, Strut Bar, Front Valence with Fog Lights, Wheels, Front and Back Seats, Door Cards, Steering Wheel, Dash (if it's crack free), ECU (could have a Hartge chip), check the cam to see if it looks like a Hartge (if so, take the head)

ANSWER 5 (id: 1959_6):
Theres a lot of good stuff here. The front cowcatcher valence is desirable. The seats and door cards are desirable, along with that Mtech steering wheel. Hartge valve cover...If it has Hartge headers ill buy them off you...Let me know Also this looks like an iS, so it most likely has a 3.73LSD rear end in there. Thats gonna be a hot item

ANSWER 6 (id: 1959_8):
jeez, lottery winner right here. go and strip that car right now. Given the weird ICV setup it might be a full on hot motor, not just a valve cover. Look around the head for a Hartge stamping. If it has headers too it's more likely to be a whole motor.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1959_9):
They won’t let me take the whole car. I only had 1 hour before I had to leave for a meeting and an appointment but will go back. I grabbed: - entire interior - valve cover - BBS rims - AFM - strut brace Anything you all want me to grab?