QUESTION ID: 3528

QUESTION:
Greetings, community, I'm not sure where to post this, but does anyone know of a collector car insurance company other than Hagerty's and Grundy that we e30 owners can use? I got quotes from them, but I have heard that there are smaller companies that yield better quotes. Any advice would be greatly appreciated. Best - Tom

ANSWER 1 (id: 3528_0):
I had haggerty on my '66 mustang. I'd check them out. I had it under my dad's name to make it super cheap, I want to say it was like $250 for the whole year or something like that.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3528_1):
I have Hagerty and they were really easy to deal with and provided protection beyond the value of my vehicle. I have classic car insurance on my '73 MGB roadster for $10k and 5k miles each year. This is about $4k more than the vehicle is worth and it costs me $242/year. I'll be adding my '90 325is to this policy as soon as I have it roadworthy again. I'm sure they will provide another agreed upon value policy that exceeds the value of the car and still allows me to drive it somewhat frequently throughout the year.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3528_2):
I had JB Taylor on my 84 318i and it cost me $74/yr however....and a big HOWEVER...most collector car insurers want you to have more cars in the house than drivers so it's not a DD, want them garaged and in some cases want your "other vehicle" to newer.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3528_5):
This is a good thread, right now I just have my car lumped in with all our other cars on Progressive, but its not done yet so the value isnt there. Once it is I want to get something else to cover all the work I have done.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3528_8):
I filled out the information on Haggerty and I was denied. Anybody else denied? For filling out the worth of a vehicle, are you supposed to go by KBB/NADA, or what it cost to fix and buy the vehicle? I've never seen an insurance quote where you say the worth of a vehicle.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3528_9):
I finally went through State Farm and that seemed to be the best solution. They had better rates; however, like many insurance policies there is a limitation to the number of miles I can drive per year. Regardless, it feels good to know that I have an agreed value policy.