QUESTION ID: 3350

QUESTION:
....and already missing it ahhhh the knowledge, memories and headaches created from that car. I have so many mixed feelings at the moment just thought i'd share with you guys lol can anyone else relate ? Mehh but now on to my ETA build ;D :oops: :p

ANSWER 1 (id: 3350_0):
Nope, can't relate, still have my first 318i 7 years, 16 cars and 10 E30s later. It's still my daily, and I still have the M42 up front. So, what's your excuse? ;)

ANSWER 2 (id: 3350_10):
When I sold mine, I did because i got a wild hair up my ass to get a datsun 510. which left me with a lot of disappointment. I later saw it back on CL in Seattle 3 years later for double what i sold it for, but looked like they hadn't touched a single thing on it, even my stupid custom euro plates where still on it. got all excited to buy it back, but it was taken down when I got serious. it came back up months later, but like i said nothing was touched and that includes the timing belt. shit snapped and I didnt care for it that much to tow it back and swap it. bigger and better things

ANSWER 3 (id: 3350_11):
sold my first E30 and almost sold my 2nd, but then decided I had built something I would never get to build again, so I have decided to keep this one for a long time

ANSWER 4 (id: 3350_12):
While the E30 I most recently sold wasn't my first, nor will it be my last, it was the one I enjoyed the most. And the one that I put the most work into. When it was sold it was bittersweet. It felt bad seeing someone else drive away in it, hoping that they would care for it and enjoy it with the same enthusiasm that I did. But it also felt good. Life is about experiences. I had thoroughly experienced that particular car. It was time to use the money and acquired knowledge to do something new. That's at least what I told myself to help deal with selling it. Haha

ANSWER 5 (id: 3350_6):
of the 4 e30s I've sold, each had a "new and improved" replacement on hand or was a rescue that was intended for sale from the beginning. Regardless, count me in when you guys for a support group.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3350_7):
Originally posted by rcsoundn1 Meh sold my 1st for 4xs what I paid for it. It was a POS. BYE FELICIA Flipping an E30 and making a profit doesn't seem that easy lol how the heck did you get 4 times for what you paid for ?? Well anyways my first e30 might've been a POS but it was my POS~ know what'im sayin

ANSWER 7 (id: 3350_9):
Originally posted by N2MYE30 Ive been there. It was tough just seeing someone else drive away with her but my cabrio was in the garage to ease the pain. Lol same with my eta glad it was in sight ;)