QUESTION ID: 3276

QUESTION:
Surprised no one has made a thread on here either talking about how insanely awesome it is or how much it sucks and what they would do differently. I figured this one would be up there with the Rocket Bunny E30 on the excitement level, like or dislike, but maybe not? I'm a sucker for a 2dr/3dr wagon, personally.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3276_0):
didn't even know this existed! looks fantastic. I'll be honest, I like cars like this more than real M3s - which have become so expensive, you could hardly afford to drive it like it was meant to be.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3276_12):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I've seen things like this photoshopped but not actually built. In the photoshop, the rear side glass is one large piece though. Here it looks like it has another pillar added or maybe it's decorative? What engine does it have? There were a handfull of 2 door e30 touring made in the early 80s, is that what you are thinking of?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3276_2):
Originally posted by stonea Its cool, but they used an ix chassis, but converted it to RWD.... Sounds like a lot a fuckery for the sake of fuckery. Also a 2door wagon sounds pretty useless to me... but they probably said "fuck it" when it was time to make the doors/flares fit together.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3276_6):
Originally posted by stonea Its cool, but they used an ix chassis, but converted it to RWD.... I didn't even notice the strut towers. Was there any reason for this, or was that maybe just what shell they had access to cheap to cut up into this? I got the immediate impression this was a Touring roof added to a coupe shell, not unlike the mk4 Jetta coupe build documented on VWVortex ~15 years ago. Being its just a tax write off designed to look cool filled up with detailing products and that wont ever likely get actually driven until it inevitably gets sold off after years of storage, I'm not too worried about what it was made out of. You're totally right tho, that does seem funny, and kinda goes to show how little those behind it may have cared about performance. The world of SEMA show vehicles is weird, I know people who almost pulled the trigger on a Ferrari 456 twin turbo SEMA build complete with the correct, elaborate tanks-and pumps oil drain setup that turbo Ferraris typically need, but knowing full well that it couldn't actually see more than 2-3lbs of boost without breaking something. They were going to put all this time and effort into building a Ferrari for the explicit purpose of sitting on display for a week covered in Toyo Tires stickers and occasionally started and revved to the limiter to shoot flames and make BOV noises, and then it literally would have just gone into storage. They didn't really have plans for the motor lasting longer than the event.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3276_7):
Certainly different. I dont mind it. Of course being a Sema demo car its just done for the sake of it with no real purpose than to show off their skills, which is fine. 2 door panel vans were a popular thing back in the 80s so although probably considered a bit useless now the idea was popular back then.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3276_8):
I've seen things like this photoshopped but not actually built. In the photoshop, the rear side glass is one large piece though. Here it looks like it has another pillar added or maybe it's decorative? What engine does it have?