QUESTION ID: 413

QUESTION:
Yesterday I took off my 14" Azenis Sports, raised the front GC perch about 1.25", and mounted my 14" Hakka NRW's. Holy shit I've landed upon soft ride quality. Yeah, I've bitched about the 300/475 rates. Turns out the Azenis must have some hardcore sidewalls (which I knew, never saw changing the ride too much), and by raising the front I discovered front shock travel. Wondeful thing, I no longer see the bump stop on bigger potholes and expansion joints. On every type of road the car is now very comfortable, I don't need to look like a maniac dodging every irregularity. So anyways, I've decided on not being an idiot and having my car as low as it is in my sig next summer. Sometimes I forget function leads form and I want to follow the crowd ("Slam it y0!"), and need a rude awakening. Next year I will have fender gap, and I will enjoy every second of it. Funny how much better cornering feels when I'm not paranoid about the manhole cover around the turn. Sorry for the worthless post, just wanted to share. Oh, and 300/475 is waffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswaffles, when you have normal tires and shock travel. :shock:

ANSWER 1 (id: 413_1):
Yea found my spinning my 175-70-14 Dunap Graspic 200Z into third. Was trying to get into flow of traffic and the don't like power exerted on them. Must put tape on cluster saying "SNOW-TIRES" as a reminder like when you do brakes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 413_2):
Originally posted by Bill 84 318i it's the shock travel ....... it does wonders. yeah, I bitched about it, and thought I hate stiff rates.......until I raised the rear off the bump stops and now I think it rides quite nicely. good to hear you aren't a whiny bitch after all, and just had the car lowered too much. :P

ANSWER 3 (id: 413_3):
Originally posted by Bill 84 318i I'm willing to bet it's the shock travel more than the sidewalls. And yeah, it does wonders. I'm basing my sidewall judgment on the much less edgy ride over small bumps, the sidewall is dampening the impact for sure. It's the larger bumps that provide an alien dampening motion from the front. Get the hell outta here, the front suspension should be doing that? ;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 413_5):
It sits like an M42 with H&R Sports. Still pretty low. I'll have winter setup pics sometime this weekend (with the badass old school Fittipaldi Monolithic rims ;)).

ANSWER 5 (id: 413_7):
Originally posted by Digitalwave You have Koni's right? And you still had a lot of problems with bottoming out? Yep. I have 300lb/in 7" front springs set all the way down, which had the fender even with 195/60/14 tires, which would be slightly tucking a proper sized one. The 'iS lip was 4" off the ground exactly. At this height, I would hit the bumpstops over every bump bigger than "moderate", meaning at least once per drive on our roads. The only solution I saw besides the obvious (stiffer rates or higher perch setting) would be the GC camber plates, the number of 0.75" less stack height would be very useful, that would obviously go directly into suspension travel with the appropriate perch height change.