QUESTION ID: 2725

QUESTION:
1988 BMW E30 325i for $6500 cad ($4900 usd) with 332, 000 km (206,000 miles) It looks pretty damn clean from the pictures The the info provided: Body - 8/10 - some dings here and there with minimal rust (around trunk emblem/license plate lights - nothing major) Engine - 7/10 - regular maintenance required (see note) Transmission/clutch/differential - 10/10 - these just work. no issues. Interior - 8/10 - front seats can use some tlc; back seats look brand new Electrical - 9/10 - all working (power mirrors and windows, heating, moon roof). AC leak but can last at least a season if refilled. Reason for sale: Had a kid and need the money. Cheap to insure and run however, as it is a classic, it does require some tlc. Does not need anything for safety. . Note: - The engine needs crank position sensor replaced ($100 + install) and power steering hoses replaced (have the parts + install). I do not have the time or money at the moment to fix these 2 things. Also if posted in the wrong area sorry

ANSWER 1 (id: 2725_1):
Page not found | Free local classifieds - Kijiji https://www.kijiji.ca/v-cars-trucks/mississauga-peel-region/1988-bmw-e30-325i/1421684386?utm_source=com.google.android.apps.docs&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=socialbuttons&utm_content=app_android Visit Kijiji Classifieds to buy, sell, or trade almost anything! New and used items, cars, real estate, jobs, services, vacation rentals and more virtually anywhere in Canada.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2725_10):
Meh it’s a bronzit 4 door I definitely like the bronzit and looking for a daily so the 4 door doesn't bother me. Yer i dont agree with that comment about parts car. if its as good as it looks in the photos then its worth hooning about in as is (with a new CPS....). From what ive seen around here new cps is code word for "we dont know whats wrong with it but that should fix it.....hopefully". Might have a blown headgasket or a dead valve for all we know. Thanks for the heads up on the CPS stuff. Was looking to get a pre-purchase inspection; would they be able to confirm that is is only the CPS or does that have to be done before you know that is the actual issue?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2725_11):
Originally posted by nando There's obvious rust stains on the paint in the rear license plate area. The whole engine bay is fully of rusty bolts. That's a tell-tale sign there's more than what you can see in pictures. Yeah, that thing is probably 75% rust, if I can see that through 2 tiny pictures taken with a potato camera. $8500 is a crackhead price, CAD or not. Rusty 4-door bronzit with non-sport interior and bottlecaps? hard pass. There's visible rust on the trunk lid and rear valance too. I bet that finger covering the license plate on his $1500 car is covering a shoe size rust spot on the rear valance... You must have blown the pics up, since that's what I had to do to see anything more than the license plate light rust. I still don't see anything to suggest that the car is so rusty that it could only be a parts car. Just that it has rust issues. OP needs to go look at it if he wants to know what shape it's really in. If the OP wants something rust free, then this car is not it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2725_2):
There's a few on kijiji at the moment in Ontario (which is rare) a couple in the GTA and Ottawa, with mileage less than 200k km. Never a lot of these for sale in this neck of the woods, and when they are on the market are usually beat to hell, so anything clean is worth getting. If you can, expand your geographical search, and don't settle. Trust your gut.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2725_5):
How certain is the seller about the CPS? If it is not the CPS then the engine could have a lot of issues. Not a deal breaker, but be prepared to do a lot of troubleshooting.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2725_6):
Originally posted by onesecond ....332, 000 km (206,000 miles)... Body - 8/10 - some dings here and there with minimal rust (around trunk emblem/license plate lights - nothing major) Growing up on the prairies, I know how much these are exposed to heavy amounts of salt (IIRC Ontario is worse). Given it's age and mileage, I wouldn't make ANY offers until the car is on a lift. The few "mods" seem very cheaply done. I'd honestly offer 3-4k Probably be a better parts car to someone.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2725_8):
Yer i dont agree with that comment about parts car. if its as good as it looks in the photos then its worth hooning about in as is (with a new CPS....). From what ive seen around here new cps is code word for "we dont know whats wrong with it but that should fix it.....hopefully". Might have a blown headgasket or a dead valve for all we know.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2725_9):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 The fuck? There's obvious rust stains on the paint in the rear license plate area. The whole engine bay is fully of rusty bolts. That's a tell-tale sign there's more than what you can see in pictures. Yeah, that thing is probably 75% rust, if I can see that through 2 tiny pictures taken with a potato camera. $8500 is a crackhead price, CAD or not. Rusty 4-door bronzit with non-sport interior and bottlecaps? hard pass. There's visible rust on the trunk lid and rear valance too. I bet that finger covering the license plate on his $1500 car is covering a shoe size rust spot on the rear valance...