QUESTION ID: 3358

QUESTION:
Does Salvage title mean nothing to you damn hipsters? Clean e30s aren't scarce; yet I see it a lot, car owners that want Clean title money for their Salvage title cars? Get the fuck out. A salvage title car is exactly that a worthless piece of metal, no matter how small the damage is. I wouldn't drive one let alone pour money/time to fix one. Just venting...If you got offended it's cause you most likely have or have had a salvage title car. I guess my father knew to teach me the difference. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3358_10):
Originally posted by Andy.B Do you really think that magic "salvage" designation makes a car safe or not? Do you realize how easy it is to shoddily repair a 25+ year old car that would otherwise have ended up with a salvage title? Do you realize you can repair a "totaled" car to factory condition? Do you realize how little originality matters in the e30 market? Are you the kind of guy that fills up with "premium" at the gas pump, because it is "better"? Edit: Also, I do not own, nor have I owned, a car with a salvage title. But my father taught me enough to know it's the condition of the car that matters, not the rubber stamp on a piece of paper. Your comments are confusing. First you talk about "shoddily repair on a 25+ year old" ; I inspect the vehicles I buy thoroughly and it starts with the Title. The only way salvage title is ok...is maybe a gutted track car. And that's saying it's one of those it was only a small nick which totaled it. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3358_11):
Originally posted by ClassiE30 Due to inflation of course. My first one was $1900. Only partially due to inflation. The price increases are more readily attributed to the rise in popularity of the chassis combined with the dwindling supplies of unmolested examples.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3358_12):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I have messed with many a salvage car, and it is such that if you get into one, it sure as hell isn't easy to get out of one. I personally would never own another. BUT While I think it is ridiculous to ask clean car price for a salvaged car (whatever the fuck that means), you are missing one big thing: If you're looking for a clean car to drive and enjoy for a long period of time, that clean car at the right price may very well be a salvage titled vehicle. Because E30s have such low value to most insurance companies (unless insured under stated/agreed value policies), they get totaled very easily, thus resulting in a copious number of extremely clean salvaged titled cars that were in a 5mph fender bender. Now a days, if you are looking for a 'no accidents not driven in winter' type of car, they exist, but you're either paying huge coin or simply kidding yourself to make yourself feel better about it. SO, my point is: not everyone has the same requirements/expectations as you. To some, a title status is simply a title status, and if that is the case and if the car is structurally sound and you are not concerned about possible resale issues, there is absolutely no reason to shy away from an extremely clean, structurally sound salvaged title car. I feel as if a better synopsis of your frustration would be: "ZOMG I WANT ANOTHER E30 SO BAD BUT HATE HOW MUCH PRICES HAVE GONE UP" Funny how many people will jump on the "he cant afford it train." Oh, I have money for another, that's not my gripe. But thanks for trying to understanding me. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3358_2):
Originally posted by slammin.e28 Because everyone is buying e30s for resale value. Well not me. I remember having one 11 years ago and how fun it was (even if it was an es), so I bought another. This time an I. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3358_4):
Originally posted by agent The prices have gone up a bit since then. Due to inflation of course. My first one was $1900. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 3358_5):
Do you really think that magic "salvage" designation makes a car safe or not? Do you realize how easy it is to shoddily repair a 25+ year old car that would otherwise have ended up with a salvage title? Do you realize you can repair a "totaled" car to factory condition? Do you realize how little originality matters in the e30 market? Are you the kind of guy that fills up with "premium" at the gas pump, because it is "better"? Edit: Also, I do not own, nor have I owned, a car with a salvage title. But my father taught me enough to know it's the condition of the car that matters, not the rubber stamp on a piece of paper.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3358_6):
A salvage title car is exactly that a worthless piece of metal, ...well, it does reduce resale and 'collectability', but given how a busted plastic bumper will lead the insurance industry to salvage your E30, it doesn't exactly mean that the car's not still a car... but your point's well- taken about the hipsters. Damn, they don't maintain their cars for shit. And spend a lot of money on it in the process, and then think the thing's still worth something. I've learned to question a lot of what my dad said. He was often right. But he was often drunk, too... t

ANSWER 8 (id: 3358_7):
Originally posted by Andy.B Do you really think that magic "salvage" designation makes a car safe or not? Do you realize how easy it is to shoddily repair a 25+ year old car that would otherwise have ended up with a salvage title? Do you realize you can repair a "totaled" car to factory condition? Do you realize how little originality matters in the e30 market? Are you the kind of guy that fills up with "premium" at the gas pump, because it is "better"? Edit: Also, I do not own, nor have I owned, a car with a salvage title. But my father taught me enough to know it's the condition of the car that matters, not the rubber stamp on a piece of paper. Octane makes a difference, yet this is not the topic of my thread. So moot point. I see you trying to dissect my logic, usually means you have no real argument for discussion. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 9 (id: 3358_8):
Originally posted by ClassiE30 Does Salvage title mean nothing to you damn hipsters? Clean e30s aren't scarce; yet I see it a lot, car owners that want Clean title money for their Salvage title cars? Get the fuck out. A salvage title car is exactly that a worthless piece of metal, no matter how small the damage is. I wouldn't drive one let alone pour money/time to fix one. Just venting...If you got offended it's cause you most likely have or have had a salvage title car. I guess my father knew to teach me the difference. I have messed with many a salvage car, and it is such that if you get into one, it sure as hell isn't easy to get out of one. I personally would never own another. BUT While I think it is ridiculous to ask clean car price for a salvaged car (whatever the fuck that means), you are missing one big thing: If you're looking for a clean car to drive and enjoy for a long period of time, that clean car at the right price may very well be a salvage titled vehicle. Because E30s have such low value to most insurance companies (unless insured under stated/agreed value policies), they get totaled very easily, thus resulting in a copious number of extremely clean salvaged titled cars that were in a 5mph fender bender. Now a days, if you are looking for a 'no accidents not driven in winter' type of car, they exist, but you're either paying huge coin or simply kidding yourself to make yourself feel better about it. SO, my point is: not everyone has the same requirements/expectations as you. To some, a title status is simply a title status, and if that is the case and if the car is structurally sound and you are not concerned about possible resale issues, there is absolutely no reason to shy away from an extremely clean, structurally sound salvaged title car. I feel as if a better synopsis of your frustration would be: "ZOMG I WANT ANOTHER E30 SO BAD BUT HATE HOW MUCH PRICES HAVE GONE UP"

ANSWER 10 (id: 3358_9):
depends on the car. some cars that sell at barrett jackson have rebuilt titles, but restored using all factory original parts. It all depends on the situation. I'm not gonna buy a 2015 bmw with a salvage title because you need significant damage to total out a new car. An e30 is worth $2k to an insurance company will pretty much total out the car with very little damage. I've seen rebuilt title cars fixed very nicely like my old TT. I've also seen very clean title cars look like utter garbage with tweaked frame rails like my first e30. A rebuilt title is certainly going to knock down the value of a car, but when average e30s cost 4-5, you aren't going to see much difference between clean and rebuilt titles.