QUESTION ID: 242

QUESTION:
Need some help with question related to Steering Rack Bushing and Transmission (auto) mount. I've been doing some research to identify potential causes to my Front Suspension feeling a bit "loose" / not firm. I am getting ready to replace the Control Arm Bushings, so that will address the cracked rubber. I checked the Steering Tie Rods and they seem to have been replaced recently and show no visual play. The Control Arm ball joints also look good and show no play. The Engine Mounts look fairly new too. One thread suggests that the Steering Rack Bushings can cause wobbly suspension feel when worn out. I could not find the Rack Bushings when inspecting the car (see pix). Are those item #4 on the parts catalog ? If so, they seem to be discontinued. Does anyone know their part number and if can be seen in my picture? Then when looking at the front of the (auto) Transmission, there is a Bracket that is not connected to anything. It seems it could be connected to the Rack, if it was a bit closer to it/longer. Does anyone know what this Bracket is for?

ANSWER 1 (id: 242_0):
I believe they talk about the u-joints and the rubber disk of this part https://www.ebay.com/itm/BMW-E30-STE...EAAOSw6atfN9Db Your steering rack looks different from mine. Mine has an aluminum tube. Maybe, it comes from a different BMW model, and it's installed incorrectly. That bracket should have a rubber buffer in it, part # 11811132527 It protects the engine from moving forward.

ANSWER 2 (id: 242_1):
Vincenze, Thank you for the help. I see the rubber buffer. Interesting that it is part of the Engine Mounting group. That is why I could not find it. My Steering Rack might have been changed by the previous owner by a different one. I see that you are referring to the Steering Coupling "Guibo". It seems mine is OK, but tomorrow I will check under daylight. I think you found the main issue, being this disconnected engine mount. When reducing speed and braking is when I feel a real weird suspension. So, hopefully when I get this done it will alresolve the problem.

ANSWER 3 (id: 242_2):
Originally posted by Westija Vincenze, I think you found the main issue, being this disconnected engine mount. When reducing speed and braking is when I feel a real weird suspension. So, hopefully when I get this done it will alresolve the problem. That buffer is really for emergency situations. It protects the radiator. When the two main engine mounts are in good condition, the engine shouldn't move much.

ANSWER 4 (id: 242_3):
Quick update: on a separate thread I mentioned I replaced the CAB and Front Sway Bar Drop Links today and the suspension felt great. I installed the Buffer above too. In terms of the Steering Column "Guibo" I left it alone, as as much as I could tell, it seems good, but it is not that easy to see it very well. Thanks for the help.