QUESTION ID: 2664

QUESTION:
I will be traveling to Tbilisi Georgia, Helsinki Finland, and Haparanda, Sweden. I suppose I could look in a junkyard for some Smileys, but I’m hoping to find some neat / rare or even cheaper parts for my 325ix. Any recommendations?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2664_0):
i think you probably missed the boat by about 4 years or so. parts are pretty hard to find over there these days just like they are here. you will be hard pressed to find any e30 in a junk yard over there now days. my wife and i just got back from a 3 week trip to france, spain, and portugal. i saw one e30 in that entire time.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2664_1):
I would peek in some windows for m-Tech steering wheels. They seem to be more common outside the US. Shipping on Euroweaves might not be worth the hassle.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2664_3):
The problem is that people travel mostly to large metro areas. Cars don’t last there long ...the same as in States....no garage etc. I’m sure there are some gems out there in the rural Europe...I’ve seen a few in Greece this past summer Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 2664_4):
Originally posted by zaq123 The problem is that people travel mostly to large metro areas. Cars don’t last there long ...the same as in States....no garage etc. I’m sure there are some gems out there in the rural Europe...I’ve seen a few in Greece this past summer Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk That's funny because most of the E30s I have seen have been in large metropolitan areas. One in Venice, one in Rome, one in Nice, and one in the central German country side

ANSWER 5 (id: 2664_5):
Originally posted by DrJosh That's funny because most of the E30s I have seen have been in large metropolitan areas. One in Venice, one in Rome, one in Nice, and one in the central German country side There needs to be a barn for a barn find. I remember seeing early E36 converted to a flower stand in Meteora, Greece. They just had it sitting there with 100s of flower pots all over it. Here, found it on a street view. Looks like the flower weren't all over it at the time