QUESTION ID: 2792

QUESTION:
I haven't seen a thread yet but wanted to give everyone a heads up with a Flickr account. The service will no longer be free if you have more 1,000 photos uploaded on your account. You have until January 8, 2019 to decide if you'd like to pay the service fee to keep all your photo's otherwise you will no longer be able to upload pictures. They'll delete from oldest to newest upload until your account has exactly 1,000 photos or less. The deleting process starts February 5, 2019. I have over 3,000 photos on my Flickr and a number of build threads on here. I guess the good news is my current build thread isn't going to be affected by this new rule, but all my other build's including my first e30 will be lost :(. Just wanted to give you guys a heads up. You can download all your photos up until the date posted above otherwise your photos (except for the 1,000 most recently uploaded photos on your Flickr account) will be lost and deleted by the company. **** Read the fine print on the picture bellow for more info.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2792_0):
I can't find anything about this on my flickr account. I've got thousands of photos on there, this would be a pain. Edit: found the blog post That is so unbelievably frustrating. They're going to lose all/most of their traffic, just like Photobucket did. Seems like they're making an effort to turn their photo hosting website into a social media platform, like we need another one of them.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2792_1):
I got an email about this a few days ago. Fortunately I've only got a handful of pics there, but if you have a flickr, I'm surprised you didn't receive an email notice.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2792_12):
After a bit of reading, $24.99 is apparently only grandfathered Pro account pricing. I've had a Pro account for several years now, so when it came up for renewal in July that's what I paid. I'm guessing my renewal rate will go up next year.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2792_2):
Always skeptical of third party hosting sites. Same goes for storing "your" data in the cloud. Once it leaves your computer, it's not yours anymore. Never lose control of your property, if you can help it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2792_4):
I have a few thousand pictures on flickr + I updated every build thread by replacing the broken PB links with Flickr links.. I guess it might be time to give in and pay for the subscription..

ANSWER 6 (id: 2792_8):
*makes another free gmail account *makes another free 1,000 photo flickr account *repeat as necessary i've been uploading hobby photography to my flickr account for 5 years. i'm only at 600 photos. the interface seems terrible for sharing across internet forums, so I've used imgur for that since the death of imageshack and photobucket.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2792_9):
Originally posted by agent The $2/month for a Pro account is more than worth it. Yup, and contrary to what photobucket takes really cheap. What does pb want for a year? 400?