QUESTION ID: 3523

QUESTION:
I haven't heard many people talk about this...other then a few friends.... ....but you know that thing, where you're on an empty freeway at night, and it's a really heavily traveled road, so all the little reflectors have gone missing, or maybe the stripes in the road are covered with road grime, and you can't see anything further then 100 feet away. And you come up to what you think is turn to the left, or is it to the right? And you kinda freak out for a second. I'm not talking about some lit up LA freeway, I'm talking about roads like I-5 in California as you approach Oregon - but it happens to me a lot. A good set of head lights seem to make the world of difference.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3523_0):
Originally posted by george graves A good set of head lights seem to make the world of difference. QED I can't say I've experienced what you're talking about for this reason. Whichever lights you're hypothetically using sound downright dangerous.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3523_1):
Originally posted by ELVA164 QED I can't say I've experienced what you're talking about for this reason. Whichever lights you're hypothetically using sound downright dangerous. Agreed

ANSWER 3 (id: 3523_10):
I love driving at night, it is my preferred time. That said, when I was a young dumbass I was banging this chick who was going to WVU. It was a 3 1/2 hour drive out there, and I would often make the trip at random hours in the early morning. On the long stretches through the mountains I would regularly cruise at 80-90mph at 1am and go 20-30 minutes or longer without seeing another soul. You start to wonder when you go that long and cover that much ground without any sign of others.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3523_11):
Originally posted by ak- The only things that freak me out at night are oil pan land mines. This is me even though I have a skidplate. It's the sound that makes me cringe every single time.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3523_13):
Yea, that's happened to me esp. at night as the GF hates driving at night. Usually happens when I forget what the last road sign indicated for the next turn

ANSWER 6 (id: 3523_2):
Near me. They are building an extra Lane and re paving freeway. At one point where new road merges over, old white lines are visible, and at night there more visible, it confuses so many people because they painted new lines. So you want to go straight. Because brains sees the lines. But you should merge slightly left. Gets me every one in a while. And i straddle the lanes as a result. HIDs light up old lines much worse

ANSWER 7 (id: 3523_6):
Sorry George, can't say that I get freaked out at all. If anything I enjoy night driving. No worry of some driver on their cellphone when there is no one else around. I am concerned for safety though, and have planned a set of projectors with 4300k HIDs for my E30. I'm also going to explore making a custom LED setup in the back for running/brake lights. I'm still using the stock sealed beam headlights for now, and they're terrible. I compensate at night by turning down my dash lights (allows your eyes to focus on the light outside of the vehicle) and slowing down. Love night driving in my Jeep TJ, although it may have something to do with the 600w of light on the front of it. :D

ANSWER 8 (id: 3523_7):
Not typically. However doing the graveyard shift on a nonstop drive from Massachusetts to Ft. Lauderdale in a 1980's Malibu wagon I must have started to doze because when I saw a lot of bright lights from road construction ahead I locked up the brakes momentarily but then realized the construction was like a mile or two ahead and no other cars around. My panic braking woke up everyone up and then we decided to switch shifts.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3523_8):
The only things that freak me out at night are intersections and oil pan land mines. If I'm driving something else, it's just intersections that make me uneasy.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3523_9):
driving at night in the rain really sucks. otherwise, i think its a matter of having good headlights. our 135i has great lights and i say night driving is really pleasurable. my f350 and e30's do not and you can't see more than about 200' ahead of you. that is much less fun. i don't know about the freak out thing.