QUESTION ID: 2733

QUESTION:
Was doing some detailing the other day and came across a piece of electrical tape in the door jamb. Peeled it off and found this..... Looks like a bullet hole to me. However, I didn't find anything in the body panel. Its in quite a peculiar place. Hard to think it could be from anything else. What do you guys think?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2733_1):
I say bullet hole. Reminds me of an e30 M3 owner who was complaining that his fuel tank doesn't hold as much as it should. It was roughly 4-6 quarts short of what it should be. Turns out that the previous owners used it for smuggling drugs into and out of Mexico, so they had a shop make a compartment below the back seat with a door into this compartment.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2733_10):
Originally posted by e30davie Well you all have guns, and they do have a limited range of household applications. Well, its a lot more efficient than using a drill..... I think you should measure the hole, it looks pretty big for a bullet hole. If its less than half an inch then it’s probably a bullet hole. I also would have thought that the bullet should have kept going and you would find more evidence further behind that hole. As large as that hole looks, would have been a big gun. As clean as the hole is, the bullet was at speed and didn’t break up right away.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2733_11):
It definitely looks like a bullet hole. The size, the stretching of the metal, the jagged edge around the backside of the hole. FWIW, bullets can leave holes that are a little larger than the diameter of the bullet behind in thin sheet metal. You'd have to try to make a hole like that any other way, hit it with a round profile pickaxe or something. Don't think that just because the bullet isn't there that wasn't it, there could easily have been an exit somewhere inside the vehicle that was repaired by replacing the interior panel.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2733_12):
Could've been like what happened to me in my old Ford Focus when leaving Pacific Raceways 9 years ago - got on the freeway and some jack hole got pissed that I passed him and so he fired a shot through my rear window. I think it was only a 22, but the bullet never exited the car, they found the remnants lying just behind the drivers seat. Luckily, I was able to follow him after he shot at me, and I got his plate number.. Third time in my life I've pissed off someone enough to have a gun pointed at me, only time they actually pulled the trigger.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2733_13):
Originally posted by 1992mtech2 Could be a hole drilled for pdr that a plug fell out of although that spot can be accessed from inside the car That was not made with a drill unless a hammer was used to do it. lol

ANSWER 6 (id: 2733_4):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella I say bullet hole. Reminds me of an e30 M3 owner who was complaining that his fuel tank doesn't hold as much as it should. It was roughly 4-6 quarts short of what it should be. Turns out that the previous owners used it for smuggling drugs into and out of Mexico, so they had a shop make a compartment below the back seat with a door into this compartment. Please say there’s a thread somewhere detailing this story.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2733_5):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella I say bullet hole. Reminds me of an e30 M3 owner who was complaining that his fuel tank doesn't hold as much as it should. It was roughly 4-6 quarts short of what it should be. Turns out that the previous owners used it for smuggling drugs into and out of Mexico, so they had a shop make a compartment below the back seat with a door into this compartment. Thats wild haha. Originally posted by rturbo 930 I say bullet hole. Why? Your location says Philadelphia. Lol. This car came from New Jersey.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2733_9):
Originally posted by ButtJuice Please say there’s a thread somewhere detailing this story. My M3 has lived a life of crime!!!(gotta see these pics) - S14.net https://s14net.vbulletin.net/forum/s14/topics-of-interest/our-best-topics/11126-my-m3-has-lived-a-life-of-crime-gotta-see-these-pics