QUESTION ID: 1939

QUESTION:
Listed my E30 in multiple BMW groups and not a single bad thing was said; as for the R3v facebook group, I’ll let you be the judge. E30 sold for asking price of $15k, don’t care enough to provide the wire transfer proof, God knows. Good riddance R3v.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1939_11):
Agreed - one of my pet peeves is people asking top dollar, and then describing a variety of issues to fix. Even worse is post-COVID project cars where people are asking huge prices for cars they bought originally at an inflated price, then they've stripped it back to a shell and lost interest now that things are back to normal. They always post pictures of what it might look like completed. When you offer them $2k max, because you know full well the car is going to cost $30 - 40k to do the bodywork and paint and put it back together, they go nuts somehow thinking they’re going to get more for a shell and boxes of parts than they paid originally for a running car! That Facebook thread was no where near as nasty as I thought it was going to be - back in the Trina era, the OP would have been roasted

ANSWER 2 (id: 1939_2):
This was his ad in the R3vlimited FB group. It could be closer to a $15k E30 if the dash wasn't cracked, the AC actually blew cold, and it didn't have ghetto phabulous styling (mainly the excessively blingy and oversized wheels, dark halo headlights, smoked tail lights, and bagged look).

ANSWER 3 (id: 1939_5):
Originally posted by e30austin if you think the facebook group is bad, good thing you weren't here in 2008. this was not known for being a friendly forum..... OP must be one of those types who goes on rants about “Toxic Masculinity” or whatever it is the kids complain about these days (I think OP is a younger Millennial or a older Zoomer judging by his FB pic, the way he types, and the way he styled the car)

ANSWER 4 (id: 1939_6):
Sure, 15k if original and in good order. However, I think it's more like 15-5 for the repaint-2 for the automatic-4 for the M10-2 for the mods. Also, people who paint over polaris, lachs, henna, and DS with other colors are monsters.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1939_8):
Honestly, it looks like a relatively clean early model car. There are a few things to clean up and a few style choices I don't like, so this probably wouldn't be the car for me. That being said, if the re-paint looks good, the car is rust free, and it's mechanically sound, I could see this being a $10k-ish car. Maybe a little more since it's in SoCal.