QUESTION ID: 443

QUESTION:
Airbag models have a different ignition switch part number then non-airbag models (RealOEM has them listed as 61-32-1-374-969 and 61-32-1-374-967 respectively). My car came with an airbag, but the PO replaced the steering wheel with an m-tech wheel with no airbag. Does it matter which ignition switch I get? I assume the airbag model has connectors for the airbag, so if I had an airbag that I wanted to work, I would need that part. But seeing as I don't need those connectors, can I just get either and not use them if I get a part that has them? Or will only one of them fit into the steering column or harness on my car? I've searched and found this question asked a bunch, but never answered: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=284205 ignition switch http://www.bimmerforums.com/forum/showthread.php?2055466-ignition-switch Bimmerforums is the preferred online BMW Forum and community for BMW owners. At Bimmerforums, you will find technical how-to information maintenance specifics audio advice wheel and tire combinations and model specific details not found anywhere else. Our professionals are here to help make sure you find the answers you need to your questions and our community is here to help other brainstorm ideas for the future. Airbag vs. non-airbag ignition switch http://www.bimmerforums.com/forum/showthread.php?2171795-Airbag-vs-non-airbag-ignition-switch Bimmerforums is the preferred online BMW Forum and community for BMW owners. At Bimmerforums, you will find technical how-to information maintenance specifics audio advice wheel and tire combinations and model specific details not found anywhere else. Our professionals are here to help make sure you find the answers you need to your questions and our community is here to help other brainstorm ideas for the future.

ANSWER 1 (id: 443_0):
I changed my airbag column to one without, and the airbag ignition switch plugs right into the non-airbag column. I am not sure if that information helps though.