QUESTION ID: 2881

QUESTION:
It was about 9:45pm on Saturday 4/21/18 and I was driving home from the gym. I made the second to last turn to get to my home which is at the bottom of a hill. As I'm driving I look ahead and I see a car coming down the hill with no lights on and it looks like he's in my lane but it's kinda hard to tell. The car gets closer and he is in my lane! I think about swerving into the other lane but what if they do the same? I stop my car and honk the horn and they run head on into me. I somehow managed to keep my foot on the brake for the most part as the other car hit me going 30-40 mph. I try to open my door and its jammed by the fender. I roll down my window and climb out. I walk to the front to see the damage and there's coolant everywhere and I can hear the hissing of my a/c leaking out. I walk over to the other driver's door and he opens it. He starts shifting his body to get out and a CORONA bottle cap falls out of his lap onto the ground!! He looks at me and says what happened? I said you hit me!! The police come and I tell them what happened. They walk over to other guy and ask him if he has a license. He says no. Then they ask him have you been drinking? He says a little. They tell him turn around and put your hands behind your back. This is the first major wreck I've been in and still can't believe it really happened. At first I was sad and wondered why'd this happen to me? I thought about it and now I feel lucky. I avoided any major injuries and I'm still alive so life is good. Just feel bad for my poor e30. She was an 85 325es w/s52 swap and too much to list. The guy who hit me might have insurance so I'm going to wait and see what happens. Here are the pics!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2881_12):
1- that looks like it was a pretty dope e30 2- we live in the same city and both drive our e30s to the gym (well used to) how are we not friends? 3- sucks man, glad you're okay but thats a really shitty way to have an e30 go. Hope things work out in your favor.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2881_2):
I would have cracked him in the face a couple times before the cops came and blamed his injuries on the accident. Glad you're ok OP! People who drink and drive can go straight to hell.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2881_3):
I know how you feel, OP. I was also in an accident with an E30 where I was stopped and someone ran into me in my lane. Mine was at a much lower speed, but she was dead sober in the middle of the day. Glad you're alright, pissed that moron destroyed your car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2881_5):
You know my parents tell me back when they were kids if you had a few beers and got pulled over they wouldn’t bust your balls and usually let you go assuming you seemed safe to drive. It’s irresponsible shit bags like this that now everything is zero tolerance and people get killed. Sorry about your car. My first e30 was totaled but a drunk 60 year old woman coming home from a wedding. She tried to drive away while the cops were there she was so drunk.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2881_6):
My son just got his license and I pray he handles himself with poise as you did. Glad you’re okay, sorry about the car. My bourbon consumption is going way up, not only did my son get his license, I got him the ‘87 eta, so I’m praying they both manage to handle themselves out there. Best of luck to you. If you were out here in the southeast I would keep my eyes out for another e30 for you. I did buy my ‘89 from a guy in central Florida, it’s rust free and unmolested. If you see anything out this way I’d be happy to check it out for ya.