QUESTION ID: 3123

QUESTION:
I'm considering on doing a full respray on my e30 with an alternate paint code (still oem). Would you think this affects the value and appreciation over time?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3123_1):
Depends on what you're starting with. If it's original paint that's in decent condition, then I think it could affect the long term value. If it's not the original paint or the paint is in poor condition then it won't matter. The only way I'd paint a car is to take all the trim off and all the glass out, and document everything, then again I'm super anal about paint work. I hate tapelines and engine bays/door jams that don't match.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3123_10):
if you decide to change the color in order for it not to look completely shithouse you must change the door jams, inside the boot, under the bonnet, in the engine bay. Essentailly you are best of stripping the shell completely and spraying everything. And if you do that the amount of work required is astronomical compared to just respraying the external surfaces. one because you have to sand and paint more surfaces, but when removing trim and rubbers you tend to damage things that could otherwise be re-used. Thus you need to buy new trim and rubber etc. I just resprayed a mates first gen civic in a different colour, about half the size of an e30, and the amount of effort required in changing a colour PROPERLY is quite significant. When i resprayed my own car a few years back it was much less effort.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3123_11):
...at that point, you'd almost be money ahead to find a clean shell in the color you want. I would have to agree with what is already said - it's not that people are being anal about originality, but more that look when you pop the hood and the engine bay is the OEM color while the outside is something completely different. Color changing a car is hard, and labor intense to do it and have it look good. Wrapping a car is not a bad option if you get someone who can do it well. It allows you to test a color for a summer, and then you can always try something else or pull it off and have the car painted. You may decide that Technoviolet was a bad choice, but at least if it's a wrap you can pull it off and try something else...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3123_12):
Calypsorot is definitely a lot less appealing than Alpine. A full color change, well executed (interior/trunk/engine bay) will be "fine" from a resale value perspective. The bigger issue is that it'll cost you more than the car is worth.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3123_13):
I don't see it hurting the value, but also I don't see the point. If you are starting out with an Alpine White car, but want a Calypso then just buy a Calypso. However if you want a color like Imola Red that never came on the e30 then thats a different story.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3123_2):
There's always a certain percentage of the owners who fetishize originality - to those owners, a color change will always be a negative. I'm one of those.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3123_3):
Why not wrap it? Won't cost you much, if done right won't harm the paint and means you can enjoy the color you want and pull it off if you feel the need too.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3123_4):
If you're talking non-M3, value is of less concern with a color change than the cost to do it right. A good quality paint job that looks right is better than iffy original paint. Changing colors properly is more labor intensive than a repaint, that is what I'd consider the biggest concern. You won't get the money back either way, good paint jobs are $$$$

ANSWER 9 (id: 3123_5):
If it's an original OEM color for the car, I wouldn't worry so much, especially if it was a respray of the original color on the car. Honestly, just do what you want. If you're concerned about value, keep everything original or get some period correct wheels and do a respray in a factory option color. Some people consider it a huge negative if the car is resprayed. If it's a project that you don't really plan on flipping for a profit or whatever, paint it Dakar Yellow for all we care. Just have fun with it.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3123_6):
Originally posted by AlexKing Why not wrap it? Won't cost you much, if done right won't harm the paint and means you can enjoy the color you want and pull it off if you feel the need too. Yuck... go buy a flat brim. are you building it for you or the next owner.. unless its a MINT original car with a good story I say paint it whatever

ANSWER 11 (id: 3123_8):
The the older cars (02's E9's, etc.) a bare-metal color change is pretty accepted (especially if the original color is boring). Do what you want, but do it nicely.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3123_9):
Originally posted by SkiFree The the older cars (02's E9's, etc.) a bare-metal color change is pretty accepted (especially if the original color is boring). That's a good point, though I think a lot of that is because the older cars came with some pretty homely looking browns and yellow. Changing a car from silver to black is different.