QUESTION ID: 1365

QUESTION:
I found a set of rear headrest with the conversion kit for my rear seats on my 92 Vert . I wanted to know if anyone has done this conversion on there US specs Vert . Any info and pictures would be great .

ANSWER 1 (id: 1365_0):
Yes. Not really a conversion. Everything is there. Remove. Add hardware, poke holes, reinstall. Put in headrests. I think there is a write up with photos.. but.. really it shouldn't be much brain hurt.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1365_1):
I did it on mine. The only concern is I had to undo the seat skins off the top of the back seat to get the metal brackets in. Wasn't an issue since I already had hog rings and pliers from redoing the interior.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1365_10):
Originally posted by allen_t So they are rear specific headrests or just regular headsets will fit? Where did you get the hardware from? Would love to do on mine if i could find some cardinal ones. You can et the hardware at ECS Tuning and sometimes on eBay. Super easy swap as mentioned above. There is a write up on it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1365_11):
i think the look really nice but they kind of suck when it comes to rear visibility/head check issues. i have been thinking about doing it, but I'm not very excited about increasing the possibility of changing lanes into another motorist.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1365_2):
I didn't see any need to remove skins. The backs of the seat are not covered. There is a pocket for the brackets. The seats are designed with headrests in mind.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1365_5):
Originally posted by TimeMachinE30 I didn't see any need to remove skins. The backs of the seat are not covered. There is a pocket for the brackets. The seats are designed with headrests in mind. I can't remember why I had to take them off. The brackets wouldn't fit without it. With a stock interior you'd be fine. I think I stretched my fabric further down than stock.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1365_9):
So they are rear specific headrests or just regular headsets will fit? Where did you get the hardware from? Would love to do on mine if i could find some cardinal ones.