QUESTION ID: 1867

QUESTION:
M20B25 Recently installed a new clutch and I also made sure to install the metal plate that goes between the engine and transmission . Made sure my clutch was aligned with a clutch alignment tool . Put the transmission back on with no issues and then I did the starter last. When I tried turning it on it only makes a whining/ grinding noise but does not crank . So I removed the transmission again along with the clutch but everything looked fine and the metal plate was aligned as well. I inspected the flywheel for damage on the teeth but there was only small scraps on the engine side of the flywheel which means it’s not engaging properly? I made sure to align everything but it’s still not cranking up. Here’s a video of the sound that’s coming from the starter. anyone have any idea what the problem could be ? I even tried using a different starter but it still kept making the noise and not starting. Worked just fine before I removed the transmission https://youtube.com/shorts/o8aYy6bFCGk?si=DVFB2MVGqz_b-CHo

ANSWER 1 (id: 1867_1):
The arm {bendix?) isn't extending, so it's just spinning in the housing. (or not fully extending, so grinding a bit on the flywheel, hence the damage you're seeing) If you were stuck on the road, I'd say to smack the starter with a screwdriver. I had to do it for a while on my M635, which required a 18-in. metal rod because you had to thread it through the intakes, and tap it with a hammer. The best place to target was a sticker that said "Do Not Strike with Hammer" (that's funny, but 100% true). In your case, I'd guess you should get a new one or have yours rebuilt. If you can find a good shop locally, rebuilding won't be cheaper than a new one, but probably a better job. A parts store or that shop will bench-test your current one to see if it's dead before replacing it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1867_10):
Had the same problem, the metal plate between the engine and the gearbox has a little play. What i did to fix it was undoing the bolts of the gearbox a little a move the plate upwards.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1867_13):
Finally found the problem, just like kneipe Meijer said the metal plate between his he transmission and engine has a little play , I loosened all the transmission bolts and starter bolts , didn’t remove them just loosened and with that I was then able to push the starter up a little along with the metal plate since they are attached and once I had it in position I then tightened all the bolts and well sure enough it cranked right up ! Thanks to everyone for all the help !

ANSWER 4 (id: 1867_2):
I tested the starter and it was working , I even tried a different starter I had lying around and it did the same thing . The transmission was on when I tried turning it on. I don’t know if it something to do with the flywheel itself ? I made sure to torque the bolts with the correct torque pattern so I am really confused as to what it is . Like I mentioned I unbolted the starter from the transmission to see if it was fully extending and it was , both of the starters that I tried were . engine M20b25

ANSWER 5 (id: 1867_3):
All the wires in the right spots? Had this exact same thing happen on my M52B28 starter, and I had the two small wires in the wrong spots! Can't speak to the M20B25 starter, it might not even be possible to make this mistake with the M20.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1867_7):
Originally posted by Obito22 No it’s a JB racing single mass aluminum flywheel , I’ve used it before and it worked just fine have you run it with this starter ? there's been a number of threads on ltw flywheels not meshing properly with an e30 starter. i installed a rhd fw and went to a newer starter in the end.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1867_8):
is the solenoid pushing the gear out on the starter or is the gear just spinning? Did you ensure the flywheel OD is the same as the oem one you replaced? same teeth count/backspacing ect?

ANSWER 8 (id: 1867_9):
Installed a NEW starter last night and it still didn’t work , it’s still making a whining / grinding noise like it’s not meshing properly with the flywheel. I’ve ran this flywheel before with the starter I had at first and it worked just fine in fact when I installed it I had no issues with starting it but like I said I dropped the transmission to replace my clutch and now for some reason it’s not meshing properly and at this point I’m completely confused as to what it could be ? Am I just not aligning my starter properly or something because like I said it worked just fine before I dropped my transmission. I feel like the problem is right in front of face yet I can’t see it. Probably going to end up taking it to a shop at this point