QUESTION ID: 1895

QUESTION:
How do you report people to get them banned?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1895_1):
Originally posted by FredK Yeah it's just 2mAn I think you can flag posts so mods can see them. They respond in Private message with some fake gmail address so not sure they can be easily flagged...

ANSWER 2 (id: 1895_2):
Originally posted by sna77 They respond in Private message with some fake gmail address so not sure they can be easily flagged... Oh right. Yeah that's a tough one to crack. A few years ago they made it harder for the spammers to create an account and that really reduced the number of spam posts, but that didn't necessarily eliminate scamming through PM. The scammers are getting more advanced these days as well. I'm not sure what the answer is there that doesn't make transactions a pain in the ass, or cost money, or both.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1895_3):
Originally posted by FredK Oh right. Yeah that's a tough one to crack. A few years ago they made it harder for the spammers to create an account and that really reduced the number of spam posts, but that didn't necessarily eliminate scamming through PM. The scammers are getting more advanced these days as well. I'm not sure what the answer is there that doesn't make transactions a pain in the ass, or cost money, or both. It's funny, I have 2 separate WTB posts, and the same 2 idiot spammers replied with the same nonsense to each lol. I also need to ping him about moving my build thread... i inadvertently put it in the graveyard ICE section :)

ANSWER 4 (id: 1895_4):
Originally posted by sna77 It's funny, I have 2 separate WTB posts, and the same 2 idiot spammers replied with the same nonsense to each lol. I also need to ping him about moving my build thread... i inadvertently put it in the graveyard ICE section :) Please either report the spammers to the mods or name them in this thread.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1895_5):
Originally posted by Panici Please either report the spammers to the mods or name them in this thread. Emailed the mod, but here they are for public shaming: @Travismith078 black door armrests and door pockets 02-14-2024, 11:55 PM Hi, are you still interested in purchasing the black door armrests and door pockets? If yes you can reach out to Brian, he has one for sale in excellent ondition. Here’s his email: briandouglas468@gmail.com. You won't find anyone more honest. @Travismith078 Hi, are you still interested in purchasing the new OEM headlights kicking? If yes you can reach out to Brian, he has one for sale in good condition. Here’s his email: briandouglas468@gmail.com. You won't find anyone more honest. @Danielp89 Hey man black door armrests and door pockets is available for sale it’s in a good condition pm autosparts898@gmail.com @Danielp89 Hey man oem headlights kicking is available for sale it’s in a good condition pm autosparts898@gmail.com @Sambright005 Are you still interested in purchasing the new OEM headlights? If yes you can reach out to Rob, he has one for sale in good condition. Here’s his email: campbellrobinson01@gmail.com. You won't find anyone more honest. @Sambright005 Are you still interested in purchasing the black door armrests and door pockets? If yes you can reach out to Rob, he has one for sale in good condition. Here’s his email: campbellrobinson01@gmail.com. ​