QUESTION ID: 135

QUESTION:
I will absolutely look at the diagrams to figure out what each wire is.. but I cant figure out what to search to find these underdash pinouts

ANSWER 1 (id: 135_0):
Below is a link to the uber electrical manuals, and it points out what connector is where. C101, c102, c103 etc. there are diagrams in these manuals of the car and they point to all the connectors, then you look up that connector and it gives the pinout and colors etc. The manuals are quite overwhelming at first, but they contain so much information. E30 (1983 to 1992 3 Series) Wiring Diagrams https://shark.armchair.mb.ca/~dave/BMW/e30/ Why does that link include "dave" ? creepy.

ANSWER 2 (id: 135_1):
Originally posted by e30davie Below is a link to the uber electrical manuals, and it points out what connector is where. C101, c102, c103 etc. there are diagrams in these manuals of the car and they point to all the connectors, then you look up that connector and it gives the pinout and colors etc. The manuals are quite overwhelming at first, but they contain so much information. E30 (1983 to 1992 3 Series) Wiring Diagrams https://shark.armchair.mb.ca/~dave/BMW/e30/ Why does that link include "dave" ? creepy. I did download this already but havent looked on the computer to dive in... hard to see anything on the phone. It would help if I knew where to start with the white junction boxes on the interior firewall area with what they are. no one spoon feeds here I get that... just hoping for a bone on where in the manual this might be

ANSWER 3 (id: 135_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro ABS computer is under the dash on the driver's side. betting thats it... ill see about removing it if its not tied into anything else! Appreciate all the help. Im determined to get this thing going after the last person gave up. Still have some systems to figure out but wiring looks nasty inside. Even had a viper car alarm I had to de-viper

ANSWER 4 (id: 135_11):
Ok hopefully just this last one These 2 wires seem to be cut(viper alarm maybe) but go into the body If you know what they are that would be awesome. Im digging through the etm looking for the colors right now

ANSWER 5 (id: 135_12):
Originally posted by Enriquez2000 Ok hopefully just this last one These 2 wires seem to be cut(viper alarm maybe) but go into the body If you know what they are that would be awesome. Im digging through the etm looking for the colors right now The colors and gauge of the wires you are holding are not familiar to me and I am certain are not present under the dash of my 1990 325i manual. I recently removed the dash and HVAC unit as part of a major renovation project and I would have seen such wires if they were present. Presumably, these are after market wiring such as an alarm or radio. Do they go to pin V, W, X, Y or Z of the accessory connector (C302)?

ANSWER 6 (id: 135_13):
Originally posted by ghrays The colors and gauge of the wires you are holding are not familiar to me and I am certain are not present under the dash of my 1990 325i manual. I recently removed the dash and HVAC unit as part of a major renovation project and I would have seen such wires if they were present. Presumably, these are after market wiring such as an alarm or radio. Do they go to pin V, W, X, Y or Z of the accessory connector (C302)? They dont go to any pins.. they go into the chasis kick panel. They looked fairly big to be stock... ill tracke em down... maybe someones speaker job

ANSWER 7 (id: 135_4):
The square one on the right is C302, the accessory connector. This provides power and ground to the radio, power antenna, cruise control, power windows and ABS. See page 8500-1 of the ETM. The rectangular connector on the left (C103) connects the dash harness to the chassis harness.

ANSWER 8 (id: 135_5):
Originally posted by ghrays The square one on the right is C302, the accessory connector. This provides power and ground to the radio, power antenna, cruise control, power windows and ABS. See page 8500-1 of the ETM. The rectangular connector on the left (C103) connects the dash harness to the chassis harness. You are the man. Since this is a drift car no accessories needed so ill figure out the window wiring and call it good.

ANSWER 9 (id: 135_6):
One more odd question... did the e30 m20 motor ecu originally sit under the dash? It looks like whoever had this before me put the m50 harness in but there is another ecu plug by the steering wheel.

ANSWER 10 (id: 135_7):
Originally posted by Enriquez2000 One more odd question... did the e30 m20 motor ecu originally sit under the dash? It looks like whoever had this before me put the m50 harness in but there is another ecu plug by the steering wheel. The Motronic 1.3 ECU fits in a bracket above the roof of the glovebox. The cruise control module sits above that, high up in the passenger side of the dash. There are a couple of connectors next to the steering column: one on the left side for the ignition switch, and on the passenger side, one that connects the HVAC harness to the chassis harness.

ANSWER 11 (id: 135_8):
Originally posted by ghrays The Motronic 1.3 ECU fits in a bracket above the roof of the glovebox. The cruise control module sits above that, high up in the passenger side of the dash. There are a couple of connectors next to the steering column: one on the left side for the ignition switch, and on the passenger side, one that connects the HVAC harness to the chassis harness. Ill grab a pic when I get home.. it didnt look like it belonged where they have it... Keep in mind i received the car already gutted so no dash at all right now