QUESTION ID: 1040

QUESTION:
Hey guys, So as of this morning my e30 M3 is on a car carrier headed from LA to Atlanta. I had been looking at e30 M3s for a while but so many of them have appreciated to the point where I wasnt interested as a project car - so i started looking at 2002s. When looking through ebay I saw a 30 minute old listing for an e30 m3 at $13.5k I took a second to read the description and saw that it had a stock photo (not the actual car) and that it had already received three offers that were declined. Didnt know if it was real or not, and new i didnt have long to decide. So I thought I'd find out - clicked Buy It Now. Here's the car. Clean title, no wrecks, 176K miles (yeh, lots), but runs and drives fine. The pictures here have one stock wheel and the rest were "rollers" as the car had been sitting in a shop waiting for restoration work for several months. The other three stock wheels are coming with the car in the trunk and the seller is sending me another dash without a crack in it. From the pictures it looks a little dinged up, and that front bumper needs some love, but overall - not a bad project car. And at $13.5 i have a lot of room to play with for parts. Immediate Needs: - Windshield - Correct Rust Spot - Engine fluids/belts/plugs/etc. Basically a full tune-up. - Transmission Fluid/Brake Fluid? - Full inspection Other to dos - Fix front bumper - Pull motor - thinking it could use a full rebuild - New Interior - Switch out radio head unit for OEM or something that looks more OEM - Full Body repaint and underside coating - Likely all new bushings, etc - Likely new suspension Anything else you guys think it will need? I may order a tune up package from TMS or VAC in anticipation of its arrival. Any recommendations? What would you look at first on a car with this much mileage?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1040_10):
here is where you start. start reading hahahahaha http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=148000 restored whole M3. Everything for engine rebuild is in there. I think he upgraded to 2.5L

ANSWER 2 (id: 1040_11):
For an all stock it's an OK buy. I'm not knocking but as you know it has rough edges so you have work to do and either hate or enjoy. Stay 2.3L for now because the jump to 2.5L renders the 2.3L block at it's Max bore afterward so not worth it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1040_13):
Originally posted by Thizzelle here is where you start. start reading hahahahaha http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=148000 restored whole M3. Everything for engine rebuild is in there. I think he upgraded to 2.5L Wow that thread is a treasure trove of info. I've been reading it since you posted that. I may just screenshot the whole thing into a manual to keep into the garage.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1040_3):
Originally posted by oliver.r its crazy that something that need that much work sold for that much, this market is bonkers same thing i was thinking. almost as bad as the 80s 911 market haha

ANSWER 5 (id: 1040_4):
$13.5K is not a bad price for a running e30m3 with clean title. its not a crazy steal, but you didnt overpay either. You do have your work cutout for you, but isnt that the whole point?? hahaha, nice buy though.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1040_5):
Thanks guys. I thought it was a pretty good deal considering there is a track prepped M3 with a roll cage (I read-never going to be all original again) going for over $20k now. Golde - you hit the nail on the head. Its a project car. I have a daily driver e90 FBO 335 (did someone say expensive addiction?) so I'm not relying on this car for reliable transport. Glad to be here.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1040_7):
Looks like you made out alright depending on how resourceful you are. That was quite a gamble. I do believe someone would have pulled the trigger if you hadn't. At this point one almost can't lose buying e30 m3's.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1040_9):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Looks like you made out alright depending on how resourceful you are. That was quite a gamble. I do believe someone would have pulled the trigger if you hadn't. At this point one almost can't lose buying e30 m3's. I felt like I was on the clock. Dont think I've ever bought and read a VIN search that fast. I was bummed because I had lost an auction on a 69 2002 a few days before. Now I'm glad i did! That 2002 went for $15.3. Thats my car plus a 2.3 engine rebuild kit ;) I'm planning to do the work myself. First engine rebuild I've ever done so I'm going to be very slow and deliberate. Not sure if I should do 2.5 upgrades or leave it stock. Decisions decisions...