QUESTION ID: 2087

QUESTION:
Hi All, Has anyone seen any recent sales of the above in North America? The car is in great condition, a genuine Sport, LHD, has factory AC and is sub 70k miles. Just trying to gauge where to price it, if I was to list it for sale on here. BaT have advised me they would not be interested in the vehicle, which surprised me a little, stating there would not be any demand for it. Mods, please accept my apologies and delete, if posts such as this are not permitted. Thanks Tom

ANSWER 1 (id: 2087_0):
Originally posted by RSlut Hi All, Has anyone seen any recent sales of the above in North America? The car is in great condition, a genuine Sport, LHD, has factory AC and is sub 70k miles. Just trying to gauge where to price it, if I was to list it for sale on here. BaT have advised me they would not be interested in the vehicle, which surprised me a little, stating there would not be any demand for it. Mods, please accept my apologies and delete, if posts such as this are not permitted. Thanks Tom where are you ? most places won't list a car that is not registered in north america. if it's already here i don't know why they wouldn't list it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2087_10):
Originally posted by Staszek I am surprised to hear them say that. The MT2 was pretty sought after here, the kits go for a fortune. They put just about any E30 lately on there, why they wouldn't put an low mileage MT2 on is odd to me. This is what I received from BaT: "We are a US based auction site and 99% of our bidders are in North America. We simply don't have the demand for vehicles from Europe on our site and any listings we've had from there have fallen below expectations. Our bidders don't want to deal with import tariffs and the headaches of shipping a vehicle overseas. If the car is located in the US and has a US issued titled, we would be open to it. However, if it remains in the UK, then we won't be able to accept it." I did explain that I would organise the shipping. So far they have rejected my E30 touring (which sold on here), my E36 328i Individual touring and also the car in question. Each time, it has been a different reason. I'm thinking $35,000.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2087_11):
Personally, I get it. I wouldn't want to take the risk on a car being shipped overseas in the BaT (premium collector) market, there is too much that can go wrong. People frequently wind up with a car that is worse than they expected when importing, it's not hard to find stories of that online. Plus, it's called bringatrailer not bringafreighter

ANSWER 4 (id: 2087_12):
Why wouldn't you take 200 first-class high-resolution Canon photos and create advertisements on a few websites? Maybe, pay a photographer. People salivate over shiny photos on BaT and open their wallets.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2087_13):
Originally posted by RSlut This is what I received from BaT: "We are a US based auction site and 99% of our bidders are in North America. We simply don't have the demand for vehicles from Europe on our site and any listings we've had from there have fallen below expectations. Our bidders don't want to deal with import tariffs and the headaches of shipping a vehicle overseas. If the car is located in the US and has a US issued titled, we would be open to it. However, if it remains in the UK, then we won't be able to accept it." I did explain that I would organise the shipping. So far they have rejected my E30 touring (which sold on here), my E36 328i Individual touring and also the car in question. Each time, it has been a different reason. I'm thinking $35,000. So that is different then there is no demand for your type of car. Its There is low demand for an import car.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2087_2):
Originally posted by 82eye where are you ? most places won't list a car that is not registered in north america. if it's already here i don't know why they wouldn't list it. Apologies, missed quite an important factor, I'm based in the UK, but could ship the car anywhere. Potentially will be going back to Germany.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2087_3):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i you can check out a list of the recent e30 sales on BAT here - might give you some idea: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...ion#post351527 Thanks Luke, I had looked through the results but couldn't find any original Sports/Tech II cars.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2087_4):
Originally posted by RSlut Apologies, missed quite an important factor, I'm based in the UK, but could ship the car anywhere. Potentially will be going back to Germany. that's why they won't list it. has nothing to do with it being an m-tech. m-tech's are hard to price here as it's just an appearance kit, we never really got them. the interest isn't as high as it's pretty much viewed as an aftermarket bolt on. m-tech has always been more of a thing in europe.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2087_5):
Originally posted by 82eye that's why they won't list it. has nothing to do with it being an m-tech. m-tech's are hard to price here as it's just an appearance kit, we never really got them. the interest isn't as high as it's pretty much viewed as an aftermarket bolt on. m-tech has always been more of a thing in europe. It does state on their website, that they will consider cars from anywhere in the world and when submitting a car, the UK does come up as a option for location. There's a little more to the 325i Sports, than just the bodykit. Tech 2 cars were fitted as standard with the following:M technic 2 body kit and boot spoiler Anthracite interior head lining Limited slip differential M technic suspension (Comprising of 15mm lower springs and Boge M technic shock absorbers) 5 Speed close ratio gear box 15" BBS light alloy road wheels Sport front seats Rear seat fold down centre armrest Headlamp wash wipe Map reading light rear view mirror Electric sliding sunroof Electric front windows Opening rear windows Central locking Metallic paint M technic leather steering wheel (M Technic 1 steering wheel on pre 89 cars) Leather one piece gear knob and gator Front fog lamps Shadow line trim (de-chrome) Would you say the following are potentially comparable? Of course taking into account, shipping and import costs etc: 1987 BMW 325iS https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1987-bmw-325is-107/ Bid for the chance to own a 1987 BMW 325iS at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #67,612. 43k-Mile 1990 BMW 325is https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1990-bmw-325is-61/ Bid for the chance to own a 43k-Mile 1990 BMW 325is at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #74,480.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2087_6):
Originally posted by RSlut It does state on their website, that they will consider cars from anywhere in the world and when submitting a car, the UK does come up as a option for location. There's a little more to the 325i Sports, than just the bodykit. Tech 2 cars were fitted as standard with the following:M technic 2 body kit and boot spoiler Anthracite interior head lining Limited slip differential M technic suspension (Comprising of 15mm lower springs and Boge M technic shock absorbers) 5 Speed close ratio gear box 15" BBS light alloy road wheels Sport front seats Rear seat fold down centre armrest Headlamp wash wipe Map reading light rear view mirror Electric sliding sunroof Electric front windows Opening rear windows Central locking Metallic paint M technic leather steering wheel (M Technic 1 steering wheel on pre 89 cars) Leather one piece gear knob and gator Front fog lamps Shadow line trim (de-chrome) Would you say the following are potentially comparable? Of course taking into account, shipping and import costs etc: 1987 BMW 325iS https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1987-bmw-325is-107/ Bid for the chance to own a 1987 BMW 325iS at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #67,612. 43k-Mile 1990 BMW 325is https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1990-bmw-325is-61/ Bid for the chance to own a 43k-Mile 1990 BMW 325is at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #74,480. the biggest thing pulling it back is gonna be the rhd. other than that i would put the value at an is or higher. you do see them here but generally as the appearance pack only. it gets watered down here as a bunch of places sell knock-offs. aside from the body kit and suspension,the majority of the m-tech options were offered here as well. you could even spec a regular i with anything from the is here.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2087_7):
Originally posted by 82eye the biggest thing pulling it back is gonna be the rhd. other than that i would put the value at an is or higher. you do see them here but generally as the appearance pack only. it gets watered down here as a bunch of places sell knock-offs. aside from the body kit and suspension,the majority of the m-tech options were offered here as well. you could even spec a regular i with anything from the is here. The car is LHD, hence why I thought it would be fairly sought after in The US or possibly go back to Germany. It's near on identical to this car, but has the headlight washers and non yellow fog lights. Plus of course a few more miles. https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1988-bmw-325i-22/

ANSWER 12 (id: 2087_8):
Originally posted by RSlut The car is LHD, hence why I thought it would be fairly sought after in The US or possibly go back to Germany. It's near on identical to this car, but has the headlight washers and non yellow fog lights. Plus of course a few more miles. https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1988-bmw-325i-22/ i'm in canada and i know they are popular here. they normally command is or higher asking price.

ANSWER 13 (id: 2087_9):
I am surprised to hear them say that. The MT2 was pretty sought after here, the kits go for a fortune. They put just about any E30 lately on there, why they wouldn't put an low mileage MT2 on is odd to me.