QUESTION ID: 2236

QUESTION:
Let's just say that I would like to work on a full restore project, drive it for a while and then sell it before the lady friend loses to much of her patience. On the resale side, would you guys spend the same, less or a lot less than you would the same car but a coupe? imo, when I was younger, I loved coupes but as I'm getting older, the 4 door just makes more sense in terms of usability in life. In my country, the coupes have all been gutted to be drift cars so all the nice examples are the 4 doors. If I'd sell in USA, (preferable exchange rate) would it make sense to invest in a potential 4 door project if it's doomed to fail in recouping costs?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2236_0):
Just buy one that's already done if you don't plan to keep it for a long time. Recouping costs on a real restoration is extremely unlikely, and with a sedan (excluding a 320is), probably impossible. Clearly the four door is the superior utility vehicle, but two doors have both a higher cost of entry, and a higher resale price.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2236_1):
A coupe converted to the M3 may attract some interest. The kit is 7399€. E30Garage Norway https://www.facebook.com/E30garageNorway/ E30Garage Norway, Norway. 13,302 likes · 290 talking about this · 3 were here. Welcome to the World`s largest reproduction of metal parts for E30 & E30 M3

ANSWER 3 (id: 2236_10):
Just buy a nicely kept 4-door. You’ll blow a lot of time/money and go psycho restoring a likely trashed 2-door E30 vs buying a 4-door that’s been pampered and only needs routine maintenance. I wouldn’t bother paying more for a coupe when you can get a sedan that looks 90% as cool for less.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2236_11):
Originally posted by nando All E30s are sedans. But they did come as 2-door sedans and 4-door sedans. ;) I actually don't really like the 2-doors, the doors are just so long. I'm so used to 4-doors I don't even really think about it. plus other than the doors they're basically identical anyway.. That's funny. Having owns two 2-doors and one 4-doors, I really prefer the long door of the 2-doors.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2236_12):
I think eventually 4dr value/desire will catch up with 2dr cars, but there is a certain difference I’ve noticed when it comes to selling a sedan vs coupe. Coupes sell quick, sometimes for more money, but sedans don’t sell, and when they do it’s usually for less money. When I’ve sold sedans in the past theyve usually sold for less money than an equivalent coupe, but I always expected that. The thing that I didn’t expect was the TIME it took to find the right buyer for a sedan. Private party sedan buyers are out there but make up a tenth of people who want coupes. I do think with high market exposure auction options like BAT, cars and bids, etc you’re more likely to find the right buyer sooner, also at a higher price for a well done car, but if only selling using “normal” avenues, I would hold out for a couple. I didn’t think I had a 2/4dr preference except coupes looking a little better until I drove a 4dr e30 like 10 years into the E30 world. I got so frustrated by the location of the b pillar that I legit didn’t enjoy the car at all. It was a huge frustration that I never knew existed due to only ever owning coupes. I will never own a 4dr for that reason alone. Something to consider.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2236_13):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I think eventually 4dr value/desire will catch up with 2dr cars, but there is a certain difference I’ve noticed when it comes to selling a sedan vs coupe. Coupes sell quick, sometimes for more money, but sedans don’t sell, and when they do it’s usually for less money. When I’ve sold sedans in the past theyve usually sold for less money than an equivalent coupe, but I always expected that. The thing that I didn’t expect was the TIME it took to find the right buyer for a sedan. Private party sedan buyers are out there but make up a tenth of people who want coupes. I do think with high market exposure auction options like BAT, cars and bids, etc you’re more likely to find the right buyer sooner, also at a higher price for a well done car, but if only selling using “normal” avenues, I would hold out for a couple. I didn’t think I had a 2/4dr preference except coupes looking a little better until I drove a 4dr e30 like 10 years into the E30 world. I got so frustrated by the location of the b pillar that I legit didn’t enjoy the car at all. It was a huge frustration that I never knew existed due to only ever owning coupes. I will never own a 4dr for that reason alone. Something to consider. Interesting observation. Since I have entered the Touring World, I also have the same B pillar location as the sedan. But, I don't find it objectionable. In fact, I didn't even notice it until you mentioned it above.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2236_2):
Originally posted by Polski Drywer Let's just say that I would like to work on a full restore project, drive it for a while and then sell it before the lady friend loses to much of her patience. On the resale side, would you guys spend the same, less or a lot less than you would the same car but a coupe? imo, when I was younger, I loved coupes but as I'm getting older, the 4 door just makes more sense in terms of usability in life. In my country, the coupes have all been gutted to be drift cars so all the nice examples are the 4 doors. If I'd sell in USA, (preferable exchange rate) would it make sense to invest in a potential 4 door project if it's doomed to fail in recouping costs? if your trying to sell a 4 door in to the north american market forget it. you won't make a dime. if you want to sell in to our market get a touring. those have a following and we never got them.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2236_3):
Thanks you guys. It seems like it's time to save a car destined to be a drift car! Sand blast and repaint! The coupe examples I see are half the price of a nice 4 door and 1/3 the price of a nice 2 door. The reason that a resto project will work is all about where I am and how weak my currency is to the dollar. Something here that is way over price becomes cheap or average price in the American market.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2236_4):
All E30s are sedans. But they did come as 2-door sedans and 4-door sedans. ;) I actually don't really like the 2-doors, the doors are just so long. I'm so used to 4-doors I don't even really think about it. plus other than the doors they're basically identical anyway..

ANSWER 10 (id: 2236_5):
This is a California 4-door sedan that went to the crusher due to unpaid taxes. https://www.facebook.com/groups/soca...60527034256237 The paint was faded. Otherwise, the condition wasn't bad. I estimate the guy who parted it out bought it for $1,000.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2236_7):
A high-standard restoration requires a lot of new parts for €€€€. For example, many plastic parts are brittle by now. It's not like that guy "Restore It" who always takes out his Dremel, sands and paints everything.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2236_9):
The down side to the 4- door is the blind spot in your head check. The 2- door b pillar's far enough back that it's covered by a (properly set) side mirror, but for a taller driver, the 4- door pillar is way forward, in your peripheral vision. As to 'value', that's condition, location, buyer, seller. t sits waaaaay back.