QUESTION ID: 276

QUESTION:
So I've been struggling with a clunking, banging sound coming from my rear suspension, and I decided to investigate. This is what I found I think you call this the sway bar bushing (correct me if I'm wrong). As you can see, the rubber is cracked, but it's still there. Could this be causing a noise? Additionally, the bushings located in the 2 spots circled are in similar, but slightly better condition. What do you call these ones? Are these the subframe bushings? Any input appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 276_0):
yea those are the rsms (rear subframe bushings) they are a bitch to replace but if they look like that first one then id replace them asap that thing is beat

ANSWER 2 (id: 276_1):
no those are NOT rear subframe bushings sticks. Those would be the trailing arm bushings... If you replace those you better change the rear subframe bushings also while its out. You pretty much have to take out the subframe to get the trailing arms off and back on.

ANSWER 3 (id: 276_11):
Originally posted by BigFurryWhale Plus, it doesn't look fun at all. Yes, I can guarantee you this is not fun. Tooth extraction seems like gumdrops and rainbows in comparison. It is pretty labor intensive, so $450 is not a bad price at all.

ANSWER 4 (id: 276_12):
Originally posted by Teaguer Those anti-roll bar links look pretty old but they are definitely not causing any noise . I would suggest that rather than taking your car to a shop and saying "replace this, this and this" , you should drop it off and have them locate the clunking sound . That way they can locate the source and replace whats needed to remedy the issue rather than replacing what you tell them and there is still the chance that the noise will be there . If my trailing arm bushings or subframe bushings are in similar condition, could they be causing the noise?

ANSWER 5 (id: 276_2):
Originally posted by sticksdaman yea those are the rsms (rear subframe bushings) they are a bitch to replace but if they look like that first one then id replace them asap that thing is beat So both of the red circled things are the subframe bushings? I'm not really planning on doing this job myself, as my abilities and tools are limited. Plus, it doesn't look fun at all.

ANSWER 6 (id: 276_3):
Originally posted by asubimmer no those are NOT rear subframe bushings sticks. Those would be the trailing arm bushings... If you replace those you better change the rear subframe bushings also while its out. You pretty much have to take out the subframe to get the trailing arms off and back on. Where abouts are the subframe bushings then? What's considered a good price for subframe bushings/trailing arm/sway bar bushing. Would a bushing in this condition cause clunking?

ANSWER 7 (id: 276_6):
Originally posted by asubimmer furry the subframe ones are the two on the ends of the subframe. The ones w/ HUGE bolts that bolt the subframe to the body. Hmm... I'm having some trouble picturing this... I think I'm going to get it all done at the same time and save some cash. What's an average price for the labor in changing rear subframe/trailing arm bushings?

ANSWER 8 (id: 276_8):
Those anti-roll bar links look pretty old but they are definitely not causing any noise . I would suggest that rather than taking your car to a shop and saying "replace this, this and this" , you should drop it off and have them locate the clunking sound . That way they can locate the source and replace whats needed to remedy the issue rather than replacing what you tell them and there is still the chance that the noise will be there .

ANSWER 9 (id: 276_9):
Originally posted by sticksdaman shiiiit my mechanic told me it was gunna run me about 450 to get TAs and subframe bushings replaced and thats after buying the parts that sounds about rite. i have been quoted around there 2x by different mechanics....im probably going to just take it on myself while im swapping my motor. doesnt look fun, but its gotta get done.