QUESTION ID: 3465

QUESTION:
After 11 years of daily driving the engine gave out this morning. Timing belt was just done a few months ago and car was always perfectly maintained but the engine started knocking and then died. 280000 miles. Think I'm going to part it out lots of good stuff on it.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3465_0):
M20's are cheap.... EDIT: AWD m20's, not so much. Still, fix it! Could just be a poor TB job and wrecked a head. Usually, if there isn't a hole in the block, it can be rebuilt.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3465_10):
Originally posted by Kershaw Brother! Yeah, I would assume so. It's tight removing the engine with the transmission still attached in a RWD e30. I seriously doubt it can be done with the transfercase making it even longer. if you remove it together you have to drop it all out the bottom and lift the front of the car over the engine

ANSWER 3 (id: 3465_12):
Getting to the bolts that hold the transmission to the engine can be a pain, especially if they are stuck. I pulled an M42 with tranny out of an E30 in about 2 hours by myself. It shouldn't take two days to pull your motor. One day's worth of work and it will be out. You can pull the motor/trans as a combo. Much easier than fighting the trans under the car. Proof:

ANSWER 4 (id: 3465_3):
really the bottom end is the only difference. I'd take it apart and throw in some new bearings and rings. and get the block line honed and throw it all back together. Knocking is usually bottom end or con rods. These motors are work horses. takes lots to beat up. while you're at it freshen up the head. The point I'm making is if you're going to the extend or removing the engine. spend an extra day or two and rebuilt it. throwing in a used motor only means you'll have to check everything over again to make sure you're not going to have to change a whole bunch of gaskets etc. while your motor is out. clean everything up and replace all the seals and gaskets. you'll be into about the same money if you do the labor or have friends who can help you out for weekend beers!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3465_4):
Join us on Facebook, East Coast IX. Several people are parting IXs up in New England. But as Ceeker said, you can rebuild a rod knock. The block is probably ok. And really, the oil dipstick is the only significant difference between blocks IIRC. Not a necessary part. :-P That said, I'll take your car off you. It's not running, so I'll give you $500. :drink:

ANSWER 6 (id: 3465_6):
Probably take you 2 days. Do you have a garage? You'll need an engine hoist. A friend is also really helpful. It's not anymore complicated than a timing belt. You might as well drop the transmission so you can replace your shifter bushings if you have a manual. And do the clutch and pressure plate. Doing all this will cost you a good bit of money, maybe 2 grand. Worth it though, obviously. I don't think you will be able to pull the engine out if the transfercase is still attached to the transmission. That said, I'm loathe to separate parts unless absolutely needed, so I'd probably drop the transmission with the transfercase attached, then pull the engine out. But maybe someone with direct experience can chime in on that.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3465_7):
Originally posted by johnt325ix i've done for timing belts on this car and most of the wrenching. But never removed an engine from an e30 how much work is it? [ATTACH]102335[/ATTACH]

ANSWER 8 (id: 3465_9):
Brother! Yeah, I would assume so. It's tight removing the engine with the transmission still attached in a RWD e30. I seriously doubt it can be done with the transfercase making it even longer.