QUESTION ID: 3330

QUESTION:
hello my name is yaveth....looking for some pointers being that I am new to this forum I have always come on here for really helpful information and I'm in need of.... .....how shall I say..... to be pointed in the right direction... here goes I have a 85 325e fully functional I love how it drives but simply been wanting to do something with it considering it to be my first build I also have sitting in my driveway a 89 325i yup...just chilling it fires up but does not run how it should so guys I want to simply know what would be the best route to go with my lil eta I have basically all the parts for a really nice stroked out monster and I don't want to be like yeah I got a money tree in my backyard but I do have my heart set on it so please will someone who really has knowledge on these builds please lay some of that this way.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3330_10):
Originally posted by spike68 Nah man you got it. You do you. jaja exactly man just trying to get pointed in the right way ive seen a ton of these builds I was just hoping to run intowho has one or done one

ANSWER 2 (id: 3330_11):
Originally posted by snooze jaja go figure getting a bunch or replys that really don't help ....not bashing guys just stating what I see:hitler: Welcome to R3V. Enjoy your stay, which may end up being a short one.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3330_3):
Do some research! The search function is in the top right corner of your screen. There is even an advanced search option that can further aid you. This question is far too open ended for anyone to give you what you need.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3330_4):
Fix the 325i motor. The stroker needs a lot more work to run well above 5k rpm. Most budget builds fall flat in the upper rpm range. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3330_5):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is Do some research! The search function is in the top right corner of your screen. There is even an advanced search option that can further aid you. This question is far too open ended for anyone to give you what you need. its easy to do a stroker with an 88 Super ETA.... get the I cam, dual springs, injectors, intake and throttle with a 87 and lower you need to do a lot more... look up strictly ETA for all your needs I prefer to fix the 89 ( weekend car? and drive the ETA for commuting/work.....