QUESTION ID: 108

QUESTION:
Hello to all! I have a new to me 1992 BMW 325i Cabrio that has been off the road for several years and I'm trying to get it back on the road. Head lights current status: Outer 2 lamps work on hi beam only. 2 outer lamps only work with the left stalk moved forward into hi beam mode or pulled back for flash mode. The car has fogs but those don't work either- I have done quite a bit of looking around and this is the test procedure borrowed from the Bentley manual- BMW E30 headlight circuit test: High beam relay test You should have battery voltage present between terminal 86 and ground with the ignition on(YES) You should have battery voltage present between terminal 30 and ground with the ignition off (YES) You should have continuity between terminal 85 and ground with the ignition off and the dimmer switch in the flash position. (YES) Low beam relay test You should have battery voltage present between terminal 86 and ground with the ignition on (YES) You should have battery voltage present between terminal 30 and ground with the ignition off (You'll need to temporarily install the K3 high beam relay to do this test). (YES) You should have continuity between terminal 85 and ground with the ignition off and the headlight switch on. (NO)​ Any help or direction would be great. thanks in advance- Eden

ANSWER 1 (id: 108_0):
are they hid or sealed beam ? there's an outside chance they were sealed beam and someone upgraded to hid. if not done right it ends up with the symptoms you have. do a search on the conversion and check your wiring to see if it has been attempted or incorrectly done.

ANSWER 2 (id: 108_1):
Sounds like someone connected the high beam wiring to the low beams OR installed the high beams on the outside. You don't mention what happens when you activate the low beams. Do the inside lights turn on? Your car originally came with sealed beams but they look like they may be aftermarket from the pic. Need more pictures of your setup inside and outside.

ANSWER 3 (id: 108_3):
This isn't adding up. Do the inner lamps ever light? (they should, high only) Do the outer lamps light on low beam? Do the running lights all work? Do wet birds ever fly at night? t