QUESTION ID: 2914

QUESTION:
Received my brand new Sachs clutch kit yesterday and was shocked by how little lining is on the disc. My research suggests, there should be somewhere in the neighborhood of 9 mm, this new disc has a whopping 1.5 mm and only 1 mm to the rivets. WTF? I can only find one other online complaint of this exact thing and that was way back in 2013. Has anybody else experienced this problem and if so what was the solution? That is the new clutch disc on the left and the disc on the right was in that car for 12 years! Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2914_0):
Very interesting, especially considering that when I purchased a Sachs kit in 2014 it looked far more substantial than that. I suspect that this may be a case of either material design differences or making one part to fit several applications. On the plus side, the new clutch is probably a lot lighter.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2914_10):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy Don't etas have a dual mass? Ya know,,, yep I think there was an E30 that had a dual mass. ETA sounds familiar. I don't know M20 history that well to know the breaks. I thought (think?) that maybe its the later M20 "i" motors that were single mass flywheels and the eta were dual mass. I seem to remember something about the later M20 single mass flywheel is a desirable low cost upgrade in the 318Ti world but now I am speculating on two fronts.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2914_11):
Might just be a manufacturing defect, give the supplier a buzz and send them the same question you asked us. Even if its supposed to be like that it will be worn out in like a month!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2914_3):
Yeah just over 9mm thick overall is about what memory says it should be. I'd call vendor. Looking at the pictures that doesn't look like the same disk. Just looking at it in side section that looks like a non sprung hub, where the one of the right appears to have a sprung hub. It needs to be in the right thickness just for the take-up to work. If its too thin the step / and pressure plate compression will be incorrect and it will slip from the install.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2914_6):
Along with the part number of the clutch you received, What is the intended application? (year, model, engine, etc) By looking at the photos it looks like one on the right is a sprung hub which would be correct for a single mass flywheel which is what I believe all M20s had. The other "new" one looks to be a solid hub which would typically be for a dual mass flywheel.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2914_7):
WTF,that doesn’t even look close? My guess is wrong clutch or used. Also agree that the new one appears to be a solid hub and will not work on the m20