QUESTION ID: 3362

QUESTION:
Hey folks, Been looking for an e39 manual daily driver. Found this car in PA. Good maintenance history, mileage, and price, but has a couple rust spots. See attached. I would appreciate your thoughts on the severity of the rust. Don't have pictures of the underbody yet, but assuming this is the extent of it, should i pass on the car and keep looking? Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 3362_1):
Depends how bad it is underneath the bubbling paint. Could be easy, maybe not. The rust around the lower two license plate mounts is slightly worrying. The upper ones look easy to fix. Can't see well enough to give an opinion on the rocker rust. Is a manual E39 rare? If I lived in Texas, there's no way I'd even consider an east coast car. With shipping, and potential rust issues, etc. it just doesn't make sense.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3362_11):
all cars rust eventually. as for east coast car being rusted not all are like that. all the cars I had when I lived up north never had rust. Obviously I kept them clean and washed off all the snow and debris after a winter storm. its all about the extra care given.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3362_12):
Originally posted by Old city bimmer all cars rust eventually. as for east coast car being rusted not all are like that. all the cars I had when I lived up north never had rust. Obviously I kept them clean and washed off all the snow and debris after a winter storm. its all about the extra care given. sounds like you will believe my sales pitch..... I got this nice E30 with only 30K miles everything is perfect, don't worry I take care of my stuff no need for inspection or maintenance paperwork, I did it all and I do a good job..... haha:-?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3362_13):
Not to mention that thing will be HELL to do chassis work to. Every nut and bolt will be stuck like a mother. If it's got paint bubbling....the paint was a protective layer....the chassis shit lacks that protection.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3362_2):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 Is a manual E39 rare? If I lived in Texas, there's no way I'd even consider an east coast car. With shipping, and potential rust issues, etc. it just doesn't make sense.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3362_3):
Thanks, guys. Car is 530i manual with fewer than 100k miles, one owner, dealer maintained, all records (low mile 530 manual pretty rare). Dealer has the car from local trade in. Discount shipping through dealer network. But, i agree, rust probably too big of a gamble.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3362_4):
Rust sucks. Chances are probably about 100% that there is boatloads more hidden in other places on the car. The resale value of a rusty car in the south where there are bazillions of rust free cars to choose from would be almost zero.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3362_5):
Dude, you live in Houston, but a TX car! There are plenty around here. I bought a car from the NE, would not do it again without a VERY DETAILED inspection including carpet removal, looking in the trunk, in the washer vents, etc.. Took way to many man hours to fix it properly, would have been thousands of dollars to pay someone to do it.