QUESTION ID: 3399

QUESTION:
Anyone have any experience shipping a bmw across the US via Amtrak or another service? Average cost? Sent from the woods of Maine.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3399_10):
Originally posted by itsonlygeorge I signed up to receive quotes on a website and I got email quotes and a number of phones calls for a few days. I decided not to buy the parts car although it sold for around 1200$. ITs too bad it was a 2000 Z3M with 46k miles. Ohhh I didnt realize you were looking at a 200 Z3m, that makes more sense, I thought you were looking at an E30 parts car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3399_11):
Shipping across country Ironic that the word for 'transport' has come to be 'ship' when in this case it'd go by truck, or maybe train, if we were more enlightened... Ship it by Prairie Schooner???? Land Yacht? heh t

ANSWER 3 (id: 3399_12):
Originally posted by TobyB Ironic that the word for 'transport' has come to be 'ship' when in this case it'd go by truck, or maybe train, if we were more enlightened... Ship it by Prairie Schooner???? Land Yacht? heh I choose Land Yacht. That sounds majestic.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3399_13):
Not sure about Amtrak or FEdex type options, but A1 Auto can ship it. I've used them before and had no complaints (east to west coast, for what it's worth). My understanding is that it's generally a good idea to compare some prices because they can be pretty different from one company to another. Also, not sure if you know or not, but you can have it shipped in an open or enclosed carrier. I'd probably used an enclosed on for BMW, but it depends on your risk tolerance I suppose.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3399_2):
It really depends on what you are looking for. Does it run? If not some transport companies will not take them. Are you willing to have it transported on an open trailer? If it leaks it will get wet inside! Is it really low? If so some of the open carriers will have a problem loading it and will charge you extra. We ship classic cars back and forth across the country all the time. There are well established transport companies that do this: Passport Transport, Intercity Lines, Horsless Carriage, Concours Transport, and quite a few more. One of the major problems you may have is getting one of them to have a truck in your area at a time that fits your schedule. If you live close to a major city it is easier as they often pass through on a regular basis or it would not be too far out of their way to get to you. If you live out and away from the normal routes it can be more difficult to get someone to come and get your car unless you are willing to pay for them to come 300-500 miles out of their way to get to you. Unless you use one of the major carriers you will likely wind up dealing with a broker that farms the job out to independents and there is the possibility the car may be loaded and unloaded, transferred a number of times, to get it across the country (unless they can fill an entire truck going from the from the same start point to the same delivery point). Enclosed classic car transport is the most expensive but it is also the safest, they are used to transporting million dollar cars to major concours all over the country they know how to take care of them and are well insured. If you want to save some money you take a larger risk, only you can decide what it is worth to you. A E30 shipped from Mane to LA will likely cost you $3500 or so with one of the major carriers.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3399_3):
The key is making sure they have the insurance to cover the cost of your car. Some times bad things can happen.. Heck, just watch that silly "Shipping Wars" show. Sure, some of it is over dramatized for TV, but still, these guys are actual U-Ship users and some of the stuff that happens are based on reality. Not to mention, look for the thread/story about the car hauler that caught fire and burned up the former Vorshlag 2011 Challenge E30.. NOOOO! (Challenge related) https://grassrootsmotorsports.com/forum/grm/noooo-challenge-related/57691/page1/ NOOOO! (Challenge related)

ANSWER 7 (id: 3399_4):
I did do some research and came to the conclusion that it was not worth the hassle or cost. I got quoted all around $1k. I was looking a bidding on a salvage car for cheap parts, only problem was it was in CA. I was hoping for a cheap 5lug and diff and resale of motor and other desirable parts. Sent from the woods of Maine.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3399_5):
Originally posted by itsonlygeorge I did do some research and came to the conclusion that it was not worth the hassle or cost. I got quoted all around $1k. I was looking a bidding on a salvage car for cheap parts, only problem was it was in CA. I was hoping for a cheap 5lug and diff and resale of motor and other desirable parts. Sent from the woods of Maine. links? :p

ANSWER 9 (id: 3399_6):
Originally posted by itsonlygeorge I did do some research and came to the conclusion that it was not worth the hassle or cost. I got quoted all around $1k. I was looking a bidding on a salvage car for cheap parts, only problem was it was in CA. I was hoping for a cheap 5lug and diff and resale of motor and other desirable parts. Sent from the woods of Maine. Yea definitely not worth it for a parts car, find one locally for that.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3399_8):
I used Lightning to take my E30 from SoCal to Chattanooga (cross country) took about a week transit time, car was super dirty when it got here but cleaned up fine without any evident damage. Was like $750 in 2012.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3399_9):
Originally posted by AlonzoS links? :p I signed up to receive quotes on a website and I got email quotes and a number of phones calls for a few days. I decided not to buy the parts car although it sold for around 1200$. ITs too bad it was a 2000 Z3M with 46k miles.