QUESTION ID: 2823

QUESTION:
I bought an electric fluid transfer pump but feel it's a slow process and it's hard to be sure how much oil is removed without a marked catch tank. My buddy has a MityVac at the shop but for engine oil changes he still drains the oil. I'm guessing because the car is on the lift anyway so it's not a big deal. Seems like every oil extractor whether it be electric, hand pump vacuum or air compressor vacuum has it's faults and the really nice ones are pricey. Any recommendations?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2823_0):
This is what I use. https://www.amazon.com/Fumoto-F-106N...il+drain+plugs No more worry about stripping the threads in the oil pan. Just make sure that the oil is warm and hot before you turn the plug on. Otherwise, it will be a slow process. I typically just turn it on after getting back from work and come back out in about an hour to finish the process of replacing the filter and adding new oil. Pretty painless. I used to make a reservoir connecting to a vacuum pump to remove the oil through the dip stick hole...soooooo slow and could never remove all of the old oil.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2823_10):
I have a mityvac. I like using it because it makes it easier. Since its just a pop the hood and pump I never procrastinate on doing it. And since it pumps into a reservoir I don't worry about spills. Once I get a lift I'll probably switch back to bottom side oil changes and a rolling oil receptacle.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2823_11):
Originally posted by Kershaw Once I get a lift I'll probably switch back to bottom side oil changes and a rolling oil receptacle. This is the truth I like doing oil changes this way.. Since the cars up, I can do a good once over from the underside. Like said above too, I've done probably over 1000 oil changes and I've never stripped a pan.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2823_13):
The valve idea sounds good but with an extractor I could use it on many different cars vs buying a valve for each car. The idea is to not have to get under the car every time I change the oil. My mom has a Mercedes C300, which calls for a 7.5 qt oil change every year. The drain plug is behind a large under panel secured by 8 bolts I would have to remove each and every time I change the oil. That's what inspired me to make this post. I may try that $50 oil extractor. HF has one also that I'm tempted to get because if anything happens I can bring it back.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2823_2):
My issue with oil drain pumps is that you never know how much it leaves behind and for sure it won't flush any sludge at the bottom of the pan the way a good old fashion drain will. As for the Fumoto I don't think they hang down much so as long as you aren't slammed or going off road I would think you'd be ok. Again though, once you reach under there to turn the valve how much harder is it to unscrew the drain ?

ANSWER 6 (id: 2823_3):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars As for the Fumoto I don't think they hang down much so as long as you aren't slammed or going off road I would think you'd be ok. Again though, once you reach under there to turn the valve how much harder is it to unscrew the drain ? I see your point, but the drain has a nipple on it to attach a hose which you can drain into a jug or whatever - no chance of spills, no mess, no little splashes. It's a plus for me because I'm a huge stickler for stains on my driveway.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2823_4):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars My issue with oil drain pumps is that you never know how much it leaves behind and for sure it won't flush any sludge at the bottom of the pan the way a good old fashion drain will. I agree 100%. It's not hard to just put the car up on stands and drain it from underneath. While you're under there, it's a good time to check on everything else and look for any potential problems.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2823_5):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I hadn't even considered a petcock (haha). That's brilliant unless of course it starts leaking...then you're fucked. How long have you been using it? I have been using it for more than 5 years with no issue and, if it does leak, I just put the old plug back in. It would be a very slow leak.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2823_6):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars My issue with oil drain pumps is that you never know how much it leaves behind and for sure it won't flush any sludge at the bottom of the pan the way a good old fashion drain will. As for the Fumoto I don't think they hang down much so as long as you aren't slammed or going off road I would think you'd be ok. Again though, once you reach under there to turn the valve how much harder is it to unscrew the drain ? It is not harder, just lessen the chance of stripping the threads.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2823_7):
I pump my oil out of the oil dip stick port using a hand pump like the one below. It works great. Best I can tell all the oil is removed. Just make sure the oil is warm before pumping. https://www.amazon.com/DASBET-Extrac...ump+automotive

ANSWER 11 (id: 2823_8):
That time snap-on was here he was showing me something like this, but more geared for oil changes. I'll see if I can find the catalog Whoops, we couldn't find that. https://www.grainger.com/product/1XGR7?cm_mmc=PPC:+Google+PLA&ef_id=WzqCBAAAAGfgeQIT:20180828210658:s

ANSWER 12 (id: 2823_9):
Originally posted by dnguyen1963 It is not harder, just lessen the chance of stripping the threads. I have done hundreds if not thousands of oil changes and never stripped a drain plug so I consider the chances of it happening somewhere between zero and nothing. YEMV