QUESTION ID: 3343

QUESTION:
Hi Guys. Earlier this year I joined the e30 club and have been working on my project as I find time. I recently sold my daily driver and was just driving my rolling restoration 30 but that was becoming a pain in the ass. Anyway. A guy around the block from me was selling a 2001 e46 m3 with 43k original miles in a 6 speed. I saw it and had to have it so I went and bought it. Here the real question. I was planning on replacing my daily driver with a practical car but now I bought the m3. My old business partner had an e46 m3 he daily'd in the snow but that was also a decade ago when the car was new. Anyone have any thoughts on a e30 325 coup vs an e46 m3 in the snow? Ha. I guess I could always get yet another car but my wife may kill me, mainly because we don't have room for a 4th car.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3343_0):
I've driven my M3 in the snow w the wrong tires, when my E30 was down and felt like I was gonna die lol. Def not recommended. I'm sure both the e30 and the m3 will be just as difficult but with the right snow tires you should be fine. Couple sand bags in the trunk and u should be good. Deep snow I wouldn't drive anything but an AWD but that's me

ANSWER 2 (id: 3343_1):
Originally posted by audiquattrot I've driven my M3 in the snow w the wrong tires, when my E30 was down and felt like I was gonna die lol. Def not recommended. I'm sure both the e30 and the m3 will be just as difficult but with the right snow tires you should be fine. Couple sand bags in the trunk and u should be good. Deep snow I wouldn't drive anything but an AWD but that's me Definitely plan to buy snow wheel/tires. I can work from home most of the time so on really deep snows I can stay home but I definitely need to get places from time to time when it snows. I guess the question is which car is worse? I'm leaning towards using the m3 because I'd rather the e30 stay in the garage.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3343_11):
I had a 2011 M3 that was great in the snow. I had a dedicated set of wheels and snow tires. Handling suffered when the road was dry, and it was funny feeling the snow tires "sway" under heavy acceleration. Good winter (not all season)tires on anything and it'll be fine in the snow.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3343_12):
Does your E30 have a limited slip diff? If it does and both cars have snow tires the E30 will be better in the snow, mostly because its a bit lighter and the tires will be narrower which is better for snow then the wider tire of the E46 M3. That said an E46 M3 with snows will be great in the snow. I have zero problems with my E38 and snows and that car doesnt have an LSD.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3343_13):
Originally posted by Staszek Does your E30 have a limited slip diff? If it does and both cars have snow tires the E30 will be better in the snow, mostly because its a bit lighter and the tires will be narrower which is better for snow then the wider tire of the E46 M3. That said an E46 M3 with snows will be great in the snow. I have zero problems with my E38 and snows and that car doesnt have an LSD. Haha I drove my e38 in the snow once and the long wheel base made it so much fun. You can hang the ass end out so far and still feel like you are in control. It's like drifting a limo Sent from my SM-G935V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 3343_2):
I drove my e46 touring in the snow last year with snow tires and never had an issue. To me it is more comfy and easier to stop and turn than the older e30

ANSWER 7 (id: 3343_3):
I had an e46 M3 for 2 years. Not much snow experience except when my girlfriend needed to be picked up from the Metro, and it started snowing. I slid perpendicular to the road going downhill and managed to save it. That was with summer tires though. Absolutely no grip. I know people on the M3 forums run blizzaks and swear the M3 is a beast in the snow. I believe they were using 17" wheels from an e46 that barely fit over the brakes. Then got some skinny snow tires. Ground clearance also helps. Congrats on the car. I loved my M3 and will definitely be getting another one or at least the s54 hehe.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3343_4):
Thanks guys. Well I guess that settles it. I'll just pick up some snow wheels and tires for the e46. I wish I had room for another car so the e30 and e46 could live in the garage all winter but I really do not have a place to park another car. I do think this e46 was a super find. I feel like really good ones are already appreciating. So I'm probably going to keep it. I wish it was an 02+ not an 01 and had a few of the cosmetic upgrades but at the end of the day it's a 43k mile completely original e46 m3 that is near flawless...and I'm talking about driving it in the snow [emoji848]. Ha. Sent from my iPad using Tapatalk

ANSWER 9 (id: 3343_6):
I've driven E30s and E36s as winter cars in some of the worst winter conditions imaginable, and there is no better testament to the importance of fresh modern snow tires than their impact on those cars. The few times I was caught in an unexpected snowfall - even a very light one which caused ice to form on the road surface - the drive home was frightening, and it took serious concentration and skill just to get the cars home without an accident. With the snow tires on all four corners, though, the cars were transformed into incredibly capable, predictable and fun winter drivers.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3343_7):
For me, it's not so much myself or the car I am driving. It's other drivers. I just don't trust them.. If you must be out there with the unwashed masses, drive something you don't care what happens to it.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3343_8):
Originally posted by djjerme For me, it's not so much myself or the car I am driving. It's other drivers. I just don't trust them.. If you must be out there with the unwashed masses, drive something you don't care what happens to it. Bingo. This is why I drive an old Toyota Tundra, that was a very abused work truck most of its life, during the winter. I have capable, larger than stock, tires and 4WD. But too many people (college kids primarily, who travel to Flag from PHX and SoCal who have never even seen snow before) in my town have no experience and cars that are not snow ready. It would still suck, as I love the truck, but it wouldn't ruin my winter if someone slid into it. Check on Youtube. Someone actually did a comparison test of an E46 M3 with an AWD Audi (I think). The M3 had snow tires, while the AWD did not. The results were heavily in the favor of the RWD racecar. Interesting stuff.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3343_9):
My E30 has been through so many winters...with snow tires and stick shift, I can drive it anywhere. The only time that I would not drive my E30 is when the snow is more than 5" on the ground.