QUESTION ID: 398

QUESTION:
i picked up a set of bilstien sports, and some h+r sports. and am wondering what else i should get while i'm doing it, strut bearings and shock mounts are one thing i will do. but which ones, stock 325is ones, or e46 convertable ones, i'm not sure on my options here, i did a search, but came up with nothing. please let me know what you think are good replacement parts. thanks morgan

ANSWER 1 (id: 398_0):
I guess it depends on what level of road noise & vibration you're willing to live with. I have some E36 M# cabrio RSM in my car.....holds up fine while not allowing too much harshness. If you plan on tracking your car consider something much more robust.....like the RSMs that Ground Control sells. Jon

ANSWER 2 (id: 398_1):
People use E46 M3 Convertable RSM's and Z3 RSM plates. Also, M3 Urethane Control Arm Bushings. Sorry, those are straight off my "to do list" so I don't have personal experience with them. I don't know if those are top of the line, or bottom of the barrel. I'd actually like to know too, but I won't jack your thread :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 398_2):
Originally posted by FrustratedMunky People use E46 M3 Convertable RSM's and Z3 RSM plates. Also, M3 Urethane Control Arm Bushings. Sorry, those are straight off my "to do list" so I don't have personal experience with them. I don't know if those are top of the line, or bottom of the barrel. I'd actually like to know too, but I won't jack your thread :) jack away, this is what it is all about :) i will track my car once, twice a year, but i love the tight car fealling, i will give up some of the ride quality, and subject myself to more road noise if it makes my car more fun to drive. but on the flipside i did buy just sport springs, so i'm kinda cotridicting myself. i plan on getting the treehouse CAB, but those i don't have to put on while i'm doing the suspension. as for the front of the car is the stock strut bearings the only option i have? -morgan

ANSWER 4 (id: 398_3):
Originally posted by FrustratedMunky People use E46 M3 Convertable RSM's and Z3 RSM plates. Also, M3 Urethane Control Arm Bushings. Sorry, those are straight off my "to do list" so I don't have personal experience with them. I don't know if those are top of the line, or bottom of the barrel. I'd actually like to know too, but I won't jack your thread :) I have that same basic setup (only with a rear shock tower brace instead of Z3 plates, does the same thing though). works fine, I really don't think urethane mounts are going to be much of an improvement over the solid M3 bushings, and I got a deal on the E46 M3 shock mounts.

ANSWER 5 (id: 398_6):
Originally posted by gstuning Originally posted by macdadmorgan where would be a good place to sorce the e46 m3 convertible RSM's, and Z3 shock plates? The dealer well if i liked giving money away, instead of having researched it, then thats where i would go.