QUESTION ID: 496

QUESTION:
The OEM radio in my 1992 318i Cabrio (KE83ZBM) was having issues with the cassette tape player. Google led me to this old thread which showed that three belts used in the mechanism were likely the cause: https://www.bimmerforums.com/forum/s...ioneer-KE83ZBM I used eBay vendor addisonm95​ to source a set of belts: https://www.ebay.com/itm/163734221458 Tools needed: small screwdrivers (straight slot and Philips), small allen key, cotton swabs, rubbing alcohol, canned air. Skill level: novice Time: less than an hour, if all goes well Note: I found all kinds of dust bunnies, dog hair and grime in my radio. Clean as you go using the canned air, and swabs with alcohol to get rid of the greasy mess. Step one: disconnect battery Step two: Flip out the little doors covering the screws and use the allen key to turn. These screws do not hold the radio in directly. Instead, they deploy tabs on the sides that wedge the radio in place. Do not expect to remove them. Step three: Disconnect all of the cables at the back of the radio to remove the unit. Take photos to make sure you can remember where the cables connect. Move to your workbench. Step four: Remove the one screw holding the cover on case (visible in the photo above, adjacent to that grey plastic knob cover thing). Lift from the rear. You might need to apply slight leverage. Step five: The cassette tap mechanism is pictured center frame. Six screws must be removed to access it: four around the perimeter holding it down directly, plus the two holding down the CD changer plug, which is installed over the tape mechanism frame. Warning: there appeared to be an adhesive used on these screws on assembly. Two of my screws were so tight, I stripped the heads immediately. Hence the needle nosed pliers: the only way I could reach the screws, directly gripping the heads and turning. They're 2.5mm, should you need to replace them.

ANSWER 1 (id: 496_0):
Step six: Flip the tape mechanism over to the right and disconnect the plug (which is on the board I am pointing to) Step seven: To access the drive belts, remove the two screws circled and flip over this section of the tape player. The two small belts (arrows) drive a pair of worm gears. The shafts on which these rotate can be pried out without much force. Replace the old, dry belts and reassemble this part of the tape player ensuring that the worm gears seat properly. ​ Step eight: Flip the cassette mechanism over to reveal the two screws holding the back cover on. Underneath, you'll find the load/eject mechanism. Simply remove the old belt and replace with the new. I'm not sure it mattered, but I made sure to drive the mechanism to the fully ejected position for reassembly (note the position of the small gear circled). Step nine: Reassemble in reverse order. Clean as you go. Step ten: Reinstall the stereo in the dash: attach cables and screw in the two hold down tabs. Step eleven: follow your preferred method for clearing the anti-theft code. What I did: -Hold the disconnected battery cables together for 30-60 sec -Reconnect the battery -Turn on the radio -When "CODE" is displayed, enter the five digit anti-theft code with the preset buttons. Step eleven: enjoy your favorite mix tape. This fix was so easy, it's not worth tolerating a busted cassette player for even a moment.​ ​ Attached Files