QUESTION ID: 781

QUESTION:
I have seen alot of questions come up on this forums regarding vehicle racks. So I figured I could start a thread devoted to answering those questions, and helping people make the right decisions. I have been installing vehicles racks for around 5 years now, and would say that I have fair amount of knowledge about the systems. I also have access to a stockpile of rack parts which covers over that past 13 years of rack production in the US. Mainly Thule and Yakima brands, with a few others. So if you have any questions, please feel free to ask. Or if you would like to see a vehicle with a rack set-up on it, I can also do that. We have collected a huge amount of photos of the jobs that we have done. Decided to do a Quick FAQ for everyone also. The Correct Fitments for an E30 are: Yakima. 1A rain-gutter towers, with 48" crossbars 404 Not Found http://www.yakima.com/racks/rack-systems/product/8000101/1a-raingutter.aspx Yakima® is the world's leading brand of car racks, including roof racks, bike racks, hitch racks, and many more for all of life's adventures. or Yak Q-Towers, with Q-Clips #30, and 48" crossbars. 404 Not Found http://www.yakima.com/racks/rack-systems/product/8000124/q-towers.aspx Yakima® is the world's leading brand of car racks, including roof racks, bike racks, hitch racks, and many more for all of life's adventures. Thule 300XT Towers, with 48" crossbars. (these are Rain-gutter style towers) Thule | United States http://www.thuleracks.com/product.asp?dept_id=3&sku=300 Since 1942, we've made it our business to bring you closer to the world and your passions. Shop directly on thule.com or find your local dealer here! The Fairings for and E30 do have some Variation. From Thule you can either go with the 872XT or the 871XT The only difference between the two is the width of the fairing. I believe the 872XT width to be the best width for the E30. Yakima has the same options. You can either for with the 36" or the 42", I have not tried both of these on an E30 yet, so not exactly sure which one will look better. But the 42" is roughly going to be the same shape as 872XT from Thule. As far as accessories go there is no limitations as to what either of these racks can carry(besides weight). Ranging from Bike/skis/Cargo Boxes/Cargo Baskets/Kayaks/Canoes Yakimas homepage Yakima http://www.yakima.com/Default.aspx Yakima® is the world's leading brand of car racks, including roof racks, bike racks, hitch racks, and many more for all of life's adventures. Thules Homepage Thule | United States http://www.thuleracks.com/ Since 1942, we've made it our business to bring you closer to the world and your passions. Shop directly on thule.com or find your local dealer here!

ANSWER 1 (id: 781_0):
Please post pics! I've been searching for the Thule set up for a little while now for my 87 325iS. I would love to see E30 racks with fairings! Do you have the Thule 300 feet and or cross bars? Thanks, Saloon

ANSWER 2 (id: 781_1):
There are actually some great threads on here that are full of E30's with racks on them This is mine. Thule 300 towers LB58 crossbars 872xt fairing and 2 594 Sidearms bike carriers

ANSWER 3 (id: 781_12):
hey Trucidatio, could you post a picture of a universal rack mount? I got all the parts I need for the whole setup, but I'm not totally sure that the snowboard rack fits on the load bars, or if I'm just doing it wrong. so I dunno if I have a Universal mount or a rack specific one. I'll try to get a camera and post a picture of what I have too.

ANSWER 4 (id: 781_6):
Originally posted by Trucidatio are you looking for something that would fit onto your bug, or onto your E30? Onto my e30. Kinda inspired my my late grandfather's old bug, had a backyard built rack, 356 speedster suspension and drivetrain, and fuchs with cream two tone pink paint. I wish I had a pic or two of it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 781_8):
Originally posted by scabzzzz If you want pics, SEARCH. The pics I am talking about are for vehicles that are not E30s. Just random cars that someone might own, or be interested in buying, and a rack is something they would be interested in buying. As far as the old school racks go, you would pretty much have to custom fab it. I have not come across any racks that would fit directly onto an E30 and would give you the look you desire. I will do some research tonight and see what I can find.

ANSWER 6 (id: 781_9):
Originally posted by Trucidatio The pics I am talking about are for vehicles that are not E30s. Just random cars that someone might own, or be interested in buying, and a rack is something they would be interested in buying. As far as the old school racks go, you would pretty much have to custom fab it. I have not come across any racks that would fit directly onto an E30 and would give you the look you desire. I will do some research tonight and see what I can find. Sounds good, I couldn't really find anything so I think I may have some work ahead of me.