QUESTION ID: 1622

QUESTION:
i know i can pry the old springs out, but i want to put original springs back into it, does anyone have any idea how to compress the spring to get it into the rubber isolators without pinching them?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1622_1):
I'm confused. Why not just remove the lower strut bolt, pull the trailing arm down, put the spring in and then use a jack under the trailing arm to compressed it so you can put the strut bolt back in? This is how I've always done it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1622_2):
I just remounted my completely overhauled subframe & trailing arms back into my Touring. When I removed it the rear springs were still hanging on the spring perches. While mounting it I of course forgot to put them back on the spring perches. I was able to use a spring compressor though to get the spring back between the chassis and the trailing arm. Wasn't able to push the arm back down enough like AndrewBird is saying. I used a spring compressor which has like two half circles. Not the cheap threaded rod ones. https://www.toolsource.com/images/pr...ium/102246.jpg

ANSWER 3 (id: 1622_3):
Found on my convertible that I couldn’t pry the springs out. Had to: Jack up the control arm so the spring is partially compressed. Put on 1x threaded spring compressor with the socket on top and the thread pointing down between the arm and driveshaft. Unbolt the lower strut bolt. Unbolt the sway bar link Lower the arm and tighten the spring compressor Should pull the spring out Also attach the rubber perches and squeeze the spring in Reassemble! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1622_4):
ok, ill try the single spring compressor method, and andrew, when i pulled the h&r springs out, yes, that works just fine, but the original ix springs are way too tall for that, i can pull the subframe down on my car but the car that im trying to get the new spring out of, not so much. i wish i had one of those circle spring compressors, ill try to make do with one of the death traps