QUESTION ID: 1269

QUESTION:
Restoring 1987 BMW vert and the vinyl material I purchased to cover the deck lid is not standing up to stretching and was wondering what others have used to replace this material? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 1269_0):
Best I can tell, the boot lid is covered in the same vinyl as the other interior panels. Did you purchase quality OEM-type vinyl from one of the reputable sources (GAHH, World Upholstery, Global Upholstery)? Cory

ANSWER 2 (id: 1269_1):
I recently recovered the boot lid on my vert. I found that the material needed to be heated to stretch around the corners. I used a heat gun that I normally use for shrink tube with wiring and got the material nice and hot without burning or melting it and it stretched around nicely. I bought serveral packages of binder clips to hold the vinyl in place while the glue dried. I used regular contact cement for the glue the vinyl down. Be careful not to cut too much material in the corners. You can always trim it after the glue has dried. I made that mistake and want to do it over again. I bought enough material to do it twice anyway. Here's an album of photos I took during the process. Oldest photos at the bottom E30 boot lid new vinyl https://imgur.com/gallery/4utbi9w Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users like MoreMayhem. Also: the clips that hold the chrome trim will probably break when you remove them. I think I broke 10 during removal. It needs 15 total. They're not stocked at any dealer in the US. Getting them from the faterland took a few weeks. Here's the part you need: Search 51131932801 - Page 1 - ECS Tuning I got them from my local dealer who gives me a decent discount, so I think I ended up paying about $3.75 each.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1269_2):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem I recently recovered the boot lid on my vert. I found that the material needed to be heated to stretch around the corners. I used a heat gun that I normally use for shrink tube with wiring and got the material nice and hot without burning or melting it and it stretched around nicely. I bought serveral packages of binder clips to hold the vinyl in place while the glue dried. I used regular contact cement for the glue the vinyl down. Be careful not to cut too much material in the corners. I made that mistake and want to do it over again. I bought enough material to do it twice anyway. Here's an album of photos I took during the process. Oldest photos at the bottom: https://imgur.com/gallery/4utbi9w Looks great! What did you use to remove the old glue?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1269_3):
Originally posted by cory58 Looks great! What did you use to remove the old glue? Thank you ! Removed the old glue with Goo Gone and a plastic scraper. Some of the paint got scraped off in one spot too, but not the primer.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1269_4):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem Search 51131932801 - Page 1 - ECS Tuning I got them from my local dealer who gives me a decent discount, so I think I ended up paying about $3.75 each. Thanks I needed this!