QUESTION ID: 3519

QUESTION:
Well, it's time to shift life priorities and grow up. I have a 2nd child due in a few weeks and will have even less free time than I had before. my e30 is already sold, had a buyer lined up before I was even sure about selling it, lol. Considering I love the e30 so much, I'm sure I'll be back in a few years. I'll probably lurk in the shadows until then.. I'm getting into a Focus ST now, so I'll probably spend more time on those forums (quite a different culture for sure). My sincere thanks goes out to all the members here. This forum is far above any other and the wealth of information is beyond amazing!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3519_0):
Hope you can say those things about the forum in 2 years. In any case, hope half-clone number two goes to plan and develops in to a manageable child once you come back this way as an owner!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3519_10):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Over the past 13 years with my e30 I've considered selling it countless times. The thing that brings me back is the thought that I still like it, it still has other mods and upgrades I'd like to do to it. I also need something to do with my spare time and the e30 fits the bill nicely Selling it for a mere 6-8 k wouldn't really do much for me. I mean sure it'd be nice to have the extra cash, but what would I do with it? Go on a trip somewhere? I mean sure that sounds nice, but I gotta come home sooner or later and when I do I'll need something to occupy my time (hobby). If you think the cash is a reason to sell, it's not. Your still young and have many years of making money ahead of you. The e30 could be your ongoing project. As for debt you have two kids. Your gonna be in debt for a VERY long time anyway. Might as well surround yourself with things you enjoy to work on and bring you joy. just my .02 That's some deepness right there... Just sell the kids to buy parts! :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 3519_11):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Over the past 13 years with my e30 I've considered selling it countless times. The thing that brings me back is the thought that I still like it, it still has other mods and upgrades I'd like to do to it. I also need something to do with my spare time and the e30 fits the bill nicely Selling it for a mere 6-8 k wouldn't really do much for me. I mean sure it'd be nice to have the extra cash, but what would I do with it? Go on a trip somewhere? I mean sure that sounds nice, but I gotta come home sooner or later and when I do I'll need something to occupy my time (hobby). If you think the cash is a reason to sell, it's not. Your still young and have many years of making money ahead of you. The e30 could be your ongoing project. As for debt you have two kids. Your gonna be in debt for a VERY long time anyway. Might as well surround yourself with things you enjoy to work on and bring you joy. just my .02 This man speaks the truth. I don't know the condition of your car, but E30's are only going to go up in value as rust and accidents continue to thin the herd. If you have a place you can store it you can drop the liability coverage or just go ahead and put collectors insurance on it. Best wishes for your expanding family! Spoken as someone who has two kids in college but surrounds himself with things he enjoys working on and that bring him joy (see my signature)

ANSWER 4 (id: 3519_4):
Two car seats do fit. Infant carriers however are beasts. I had to sell off my 07 Legacy wagon as it would only fit one infant carrier without making front seat occupants eat the dash. And I have a lot more kids and still play w I think cars. Life into over after kids. Take care of yourself. Best wishes and congratulations!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3519_5):
Originally posted by Restoman Not really. No LATCH points. Kids rode in cars before LATCH. LATCH really makes install and removal easier. More a convenience than safety feature.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3519_6):
B5 doesn't have LATCH, with the seatbelt ratchet mechanism and the belt pinch device on the seat, it is just as secure. Not as fast to install, but I have 100% confidence in it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3519_7):
OP if you plan on getting back into e30's, why sell your current one? Making a small monthly payment to keeping it in storage seems like a better decision to me. Originally posted by TimeMachinE30 And I have a lot more kids and still play w I think cars. Life into over after kids.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3519_8):
That is not a bad idea, although my wife and I have also been trying to pay off student loans more aggressively. We have no credit cards, but our overall debt is still too high for my comfort.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3519_9):
Over the past 13 years with my e30 I've considered selling it countless times. The thing that brings me back is the thought that I still like it, it still has other mods and upgrades I'd like to do to it. I also need something to do with my spare time and the e30 fits the bill nicely Selling it for a mere 6-8 k wouldn't really do much for me. I mean sure it'd be nice to have the extra cash, but what would I do with it? Go on a trip somewhere? I mean sure that sounds nice, but I gotta come home sooner or later and when I do I'll need something to occupy my time (hobby). If you think the cash is a reason to sell, it's not. Your still young and have many years of making money ahead of you. The e30 could be your ongoing project. As for debt you have two kids. Your gonna be in debt for a VERY long time anyway. Might as well surround yourself with things you enjoy to work on and bring you joy. just my .02