QUESTION ID: 3235

QUESTION:
Well most everybody here already knows it, but I haven't seen a major automotive group acknowledge that the non m3 e30 is a great vehicle. Well finally, MotorTrend has recognized it and dedicated this awesome video to the e30! They display all of the models (except maybe the 318is) in the range and even race a 2.7 stroker wagon on a track. This is a must watch for any e30 enthusiast and probably the best long movie about just the e30 I have seen. Worth the watch! I appreciate the effort of the Respect Your Elders documentary, but I was disappointed with the documentary and believe this episode of ignition truly encapsulates the draw of the e30. Only wish they had more SpecE30 footage as I've seen some youtube videos of it, but there is nothing like that in my neck of the woods. Enjoy LONG LIVE the e30!! :hitler:

ANSWER 1 (id: 3235_0):
wow I just watched this before getting on r3v. E30's rule. Watching that reminded me of my old is and how redlining that thing was so damn fun.. vraa vraa vraaaaa.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3235_10):
Very nice. When the cars first came there were many 325's racing as well but the M3 was the top dog. In capable hands the 325's were just as good. Then came swaps which leveled the playing field and the M3's bottomed out around year 2000 so people were scooping them up cheap. Today, the M3's are crazy money which makes the 325i that much more attractive for someone who wants to race the car and not worry as much.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3235_11):
Originally posted by downforce22 Well most everybody here already knows it, but I haven't seen a major automotive group acknowledge that the non m3 e30 is a great vehicle. Not true at all. Common race car. It's a staple of Lemons. The Grassroots Motorsports Challenge has been won by a 325 E30. There's a popular Spec series, and the Pro 3 class as well. It's a common answer to the "what budget race car" question and usually stands in as a Miata alternative (and that's a good thing). It's taken the cover of many magazines over the years. It is FAR from unacknowledged. They are cheap because 2.3 million were built, not because people don't like them.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3235_3):
Oops, I wish I knew that it was on this section of the forum. Saw it on my group's FB page and literally just posted it to off-topic, lol. It really does make me appreciate my little 325i just that much more, seeing the potential it has and that even a touring can keep up with a brand new 3-er is a testament to how incredible these cars really are.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3235_4):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec Oops, I wish I knew that it was on this section of the forum. Saw it on my group's FB page and literally just posted it to off-topic, lol. It really does make me appreciate my little 325i just that much more, seeing the potential it has and that even a touring can keep up with a brand new 3-er is a testament to how incredible these cars really are. the way that touring took the corners! I was thinking it was sped up or something lol that car is awesome.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3235_6):
So much greatness in that vid. Really makes me realize why I have such a hard time parting with any of the old boxes. I added it to my collection of e30 videos, like the old Motorweek reviews and such. I came on here to post the vid as I watch motortrend on youtube fairly frequently... and no surprise someone beat me to it. Will definitely draw even more attention to the e30 chassis though and I fear the e30 tax will only continue to rise. For better or worse really though. Depends on your perspective.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3235_7):
Originally posted by e30onBBSs the way that touring took the corners! I was thinking it was sped up or something lol that car is awesome. Toyo R888s are no joke. haha.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3235_9):
I've watched that video several times now. I agree Respect Your Elders was kind of disappointing. This video really captures what the e30 is about. I must admit after all of the car trouble I've been having e30 wise after the past few months I was starting to loose interest and even thought about selling one of them, but this video reignited my love for them. I can't wait to get back to wrenching on my e30's and getting them to where I want it to be.