QUESTION ID: 2908

QUESTION:
2 Killed In 2-Car Crash On Veterans Highway In Millersville http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/2014/01/15/police-speeding-bmw-causes-double-fatal-accident-on-veterans-highway/ Two people are dead after a Wednesday morning crash on Veterans Highway in Anne Arundel County. Speed appears to be a factor. I hate even posting this, but know a number of guys on here knew Shane and possibly Tony. They were my friends. I spent most Friday evenings with them at the shop they worked at. Shane has supplied parts to many people in the community over the years, including the good guys over at Guten. Please slow down guys. My friends did not and they aren't coming back.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2908_0):
Damn. Terribly sorry for your loss, and wish you strength during this difficult time. no mater your age, keep those speeds at your local track. These are real accidents, and tragic loses. my condolences.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2908_1):
Originally posted by Mr. Burns Damn. Terribly sorry for your loss, and wish you strength during this difficult time. no mater your age, keep those speeds at your local track. These are real accidents, and tragic loses. my condolences. Can't say it any better. Sorry man.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2908_10):
Wow. Not much more that can be said. I hate hearing any stories about accidents that could have been avoided. It's not worth it, guys. I've had close calls, and thats enough. I'm lucky it's never worse.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2908_12):
Originally posted by robrez Sorry for the loss. Were they on r3v? Screen names? I think they were. If its the same Shane im thinking of, i bought stuff from him also. Im stunned.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2908_4):
Originally posted by Mr. Burns Damn. Terribly sorry for your loss, and wish you strength during this difficult time. no mater your age, keep those speeds at your local track. These are real accidents, and tragic loses. my condolences. I second this. No ones life is worth the fun of going fast.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2908_7):
R.I.P Shane...we did a lot of business together and he was a real nice guy...a real tragedy, loss and you will be missed...life's short...you just never know whats in store for you...R.I.P.....peace be with you..warmest wishes to his family and close friends