QUESTION ID: 195

QUESTION:
I am looking for this part of the lock. When I rebuilt mine, I remember thinking the one it came with seemed cheap compared to the original, sure enough, when I lock the car, it skips over and then jams the lock. Instead of buying a whole new one, was wondering if anyone knows the part number or somewhere I could get just that piece

ANSWER 1 (id: 195_0):
Originally posted by onesecond I am looking for this part of the lock. When I rebuilt mine, I remember thinking the one it came with seemed cheap compared to the original, sure enough, when I lock the car, it skips over and then jams the lock. Instead of buying a whole new one, was wondering if anyone knows the part number or somewhere I could get just that piece you have to purchase the whole kit. the spring isn't listed anywhere. the lock kits have been unavailable for a little over a year. they may never come back. i've been looking for a repair kit for about 18 months. so far nothing in north america, nothing in europe. edit : do a search for torsion springs. the spring itself is simply generic. i'm thinking it may be found if you look for it by the number of laps, the diameter, and the separation degree of the arms. it's probably possible to find one similar but the arms may need modification to work.

ANSWER 2 (id: 195_1):
Originally posted by 82eye you have to purchase the whole kit. the spring isn't listed anywhere. the lock kits have been unavailable for a little over a year. they may never come back. i've been looking for a repair kit for about 18 months. so far nothing in north america, nothing in europe. edit : do a search for torsion springs. the spring itself is simply generic. i'm thinking it may be found if you look for it by the number of laps, the diameter, and the separation degree of the arms. it's probably possible to find one similar but the arms may need modification to work. If you ever do get a kit, mind sending me your old torsion spring? :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 195_2):
Originally posted by onesecond If you ever do get a kit, mind sending me your old torsion spring? :) sure i'll consider it. it's probably going to be quicker to find a generic one.