QUESTION ID: 331

QUESTION:
Well, I have ran the cabrio specific H&R sports and Bilstein Sports on my e30vert for some time. Ever since installing them I have felt that the rear end of the car is just a bit too high and should be a little lower. In my opinion I have too much rake and need to get closer to level. I still want rake , but just a little less. I know some of my options and was wondering what would be a good way to go about lowering the rear a bit more. I run the spring hats and never run a rear spare tire. FYI. Ways I can do it include: Pull the front and rear suspension and install Ground Control or KW Coilovers and Konis' - attractive option and costly Pull the Rear H&R sport springs and install springs with less height and are approximatley the same stiffness and have similar rebound to the H & R sports - Dont know off hand what springs those might be - Less costly and might look good if the springs are the right height. Remove the spring hats - Does not seem that doing so will give quite enough drop Cut the existing springs just a bit and have it done professionally so that they will mount flat and correct when installed- Lots of suggestions against doing this! Only added as a ghetto option. If there are other methods please list them and let me know what you all thinks is the better way to get the drop that I want - approx 1/2"- 3/4 " should do it. maybe an inch , but that might be too low. Here is a picture of the ride height currently Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 331_0):
Spring Pads. The wheel motion ratio is .64 to 1. This means that for a 1" drop you need to decrease the distance between the rear spring seats .64". Take out any spring pads and see. The price is right!

ANSWER 2 (id: 331_2):
That drop looks pretty close to the stock height on my cabrio! Damn, and I wanted to go with the same setup How much did that drop your car from stock?

ANSWER 3 (id: 331_3):
Thanks for the spring hat removal confirmation. I was concerned about wear to the spring perches and squeaking noises that may come from vibration of the spring on the perch. Rear Valance is a great idea and want to pick one up, but just a really simple one. I am going to change to the newer plastic bumpers and need to source a good rear valance. Any suggestions ??? or Attached Files

ANSWER 4 (id: 331_4):
Originally posted by sirket1 That drop looks pretty close to the stock height on my cabrio! Damn, and I wanted to go with the same setup How much did that drop your car from stock? No that is no where near stock height! At least an inch in the rear of drop and over an inch in the front. The E30's stock are totally floating above the wheels and there is so much float that the car has a good deal of body roll. With the Bilstein /HR Sport combo it drops the center of gravity a good deal and provides a stiffer ride. Not too stiff for street though. It works well , but I want to almost tuck my rear wheels and since I run no spare and the spring hats I think that I have not achieved the full drop potential.

ANSWER 5 (id: 331_6):
Im going to do it ! i will post pictures after I do. Will need to roll the rear fenders cause I do get some rub currently over hard bumps. With the end a bit lower I bet I would get full on rub to the max. Tire grooving and shaving by the fender lips to the max.