QUESTION ID: 2193

QUESTION:
So I was browsing the internet and I came across this E30 with a roof spoiler. But it also has the 3rd brake light mounted in it. I think it's quite neat and good looking. (This has a 1jz swap just in case you were curious)

ANSWER 1 (id: 2193_0):
Doesn't flow well with the lines of the car IMO. Looks JDM though. It works on that particular ride as it's obviously got a lot of JDM influence going on.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2193_2):
I'm asking more about the idea of the spoiler. Not so much the rest of the car. The engine swap is pretty clean. But you're right it does have JDM vibe to it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2193_4):
That white one reminds me of the "URAS" kits on all the jap cars from like 2005... its a no from me. The roof spoiler, well if you like it go for it. might look ok on simpler car. I dont personally like that first car, but each to their own. both cars appear to have Japanese wheels, think those shiny ones on the first car are Hoshino, and the ones on the white one look familiar, the 4 spoke is quite distinctive.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2193_6):
If you’re going to go for a roof spoiler, why not a fully functional one like the e30s old sparring partner in the Group A era.... the Sierra Cosworth Always liked those (although they’d probably be horrid on the e30!)

ANSWER 5 (id: 2193_8):
Originally posted by uturn I haven't seen one in ages.... Over here they were called - Merkur XR4Ti we didn't get near the same engine or car. that kit is hilarious and a no from a thousand yards. as far as the first e30 i hate any car with a boner for an exhaust system. oops edit : i've seen that roof spoiler mod before. it's a mk2 golf spoiler, so at least it isn't jdm... they can be had with or without the third brake light i believe. they get used on more than just e30's.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2193_9):
Originally posted by 82eye we didn't get near the same engine or car. i hate any car with a boner for an exhaust system. Cosworth YB vs Ford Lima with a turbo, yeah, not much of a comparison, but a few years later the turbo would have been on top. Also, the X Ratty was slightly kneecapped what with the non-intercooled system to keep it below the SVO Mustang in the performance lineup.