QUESTION ID: 2005

QUESTION:
I've read on this forum that you can go to BMW and get an OEM key for your E30. The price that was mentioned was $75. Wanted to let you know that I went to my local BMW dealership today with a copy of my title (registration would work) and license to get a new key and they told me the cost is $168. Yes, $168 for 1 plain old, no electronics, no chip key. $168!!! I was barely willing to pay $75. $168 is just ridiculous.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2005_10):
Some dealerships are so expensive that it seems like they don't actually want to sell stuff. Then there is BMW of South Atlanta that charges barely over their cost so they can get all the internet sales. I've used their internet prices to get my local dealership to price-match. You could try that in the future.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2005_11):
Originally posted by Lippy I wonder if the original dealer was quoting me the price for the key with the built in light or something? Either way, $168 ridiculous. Nah with the light you'll be over $200 for sure. My E34 key was around that price without the light. I think it's just down to car dealerships generally being run by scumbags who will gouge on parts just because they can and consider dealing with the secondary market an inconvenience. Hopefully some day I'll get to talk to someone who is a decision-maker at a dealership and pick their brain, see what's going on in there. Seems like an industry full of sociopaths to me after the dealer issues I've heard of from family and the outright price-gouging I've seen on stuff like this.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2005_12):
Originally posted by varg ...and consider dealing with the secondary market an inconvenience. I assume its about effort vs value, along with a little apathy. Markups are a key component of their revenue stream, which also helps to offset costs if they have to warranty a defective repair. 200% on a water pump that could fail? Probably fair. 200% on a key? Crazy. But are they taking the time to adjust their markups based on the part? Along with that, it costs money to have people talking to customers and touching parts. Maybe its not worth their time to sell random things in low volumes unless they're getting a decent profit.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2005_2):
I bought 3 replicas from "Modelkiss" on Ebay. He is in Thailand. The three key blanks were $11.09. The blanks weren't perfect but they were good enough for me.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2005_3):
Yes, it is ridiculously expensive these days. I bought a cut-to-numbers steel key for both of my BMWs (as they each only came with one heavily worn replica key), and got copies cut from the fresh keys. I don't like using the steel keys because I'd rather wear the key quickly than the pins, but copies cut off of copies sometimes stop working so I use the fresh as a master. E30 blanks are fairly common in my experience, I was able to get copies made at the local locksmith's shop for very cheap.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2005_4):
I went to my dealer for a key in May 2022. With registration and after a four day wait for it to come in, paid low $80s. Can't remember the specific number. If you have the option, try another dealer or call back with a different parts dude working.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2005_5):
Originally posted by Reichart12 I went to my dealer for a key in May 2022. With registration and after a four day wait for it to come in, paid low $80s. Can't remember the specific number. If you have the option, try another dealer or call back with a different parts dude working. Yeah, maybe I'll try another dealer, or just buy a blank and see if I can get someone to cut it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2005_6):
In August 2020 I paid $98 after taxes. The two keys I had from the original owner were very worn. When I rebuilt the tumblers, I found part of a key shank in the trunk's and 2 wafers missing in the driver's. I did not like making a copy of a worn copy so I bit the bullet and paid the dealer for a VIN cut key. Took 4 days as it had to be special ordered from NJ. In addition to the VIN cut key from the dealer, but purchased an OEM blank and found a local locksmith to cut it for me. I keep the VIN cut in storage. What also pains me is that I've only dropped the OEM key twice, and the black housing has already cracked / split. So much for OEM quality and durability.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2005_7):
You can still find factory blank keys (https://www.rmeuropean.com/Products/...-MFG9-V80.aspx) but the issue is finding a locksmith that has the wheels to cut steel keys. Call around and may you have better luck than I did. For ease of use I would recommend a set of ilco X144 BMW3 brass keys and have a local locksmith make a few for you. They arent perfect but they work really well for a long time

ANSWER 10 (id: 2005_8):
Update: I called another dealer and they I paid $76 including tax for a new key. It should be ready in a couple of days. I wonder if the original dealer was quoting me the price for the key with the built in light or something? Either way, $168 ridiculous.