QUESTION ID: 1791

QUESTION:
Hey all, very excited new e30 owner here! I snagged a 1988 325is on bring a trailer yesterday, and am planning to fly out to LA to collect the car, then drive it back to Seattle. ​​​​​ Wondering what tools, parts, and extra liquids you would bring or buy on an initial stop at an auto parts store in the car, knowing you were about to drive it 1000 miles? The car is reportedly in good running shape, and the owner seems confident in its ability to make the drive without issue. Just to be on the safe side, what wouldn't you want to be without? Thanks Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 1791_0):
Bring your credit card at a minimum. When you get there, buy some distilled water and a jug of motor oil. ATF and brake fluid if it's low. Airlines don't like when you bring "stuff". As long as the timing belt doesn't snap you should be able to get to the next town and find a local R3Ver to give you a hand. Also buy a utility knife when you get there in case you have to cut the power steering belt if it leaks all its ATF.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1791_1):
Depends on the type of BaT purchase, if it's one where a recent oil change in 2023 is the only listed maintenance you should be ready to replace every rubber component, starting with the fuel lines. If it's been owned by a normal enthusiast I'd grab an alternator/WP belt and basic fluids. Since those are the only services you are likely to be able to do on the roadside. Perhaps one could also change the fuel pump with limited tools, but you'd have to pre-order one so you don't get parts store junk if they even stock one. Ultimately, your ears, and a AAA Plus or better membership are the best tools an E30 doesn't already have.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1791_10):
I'm in the 'bring minimal shit and buy whatever you need once you get there' camp. Tools are just so heavy that you'll hit an airline's bag weight limit quickly, then have to pay the fee. Plus lugging them through an airport, and having the airline potentially lose the bag. At most, I'd bring a screwdriver, 3/8 Ratchet, mid length extension, and complete socket set. Maybe some side-cutters and your go-to grabbing pliers. Any consumable item is going to be cheap to buy there, so I wouldn't bother with zip ties, hose lengths, clamps, fluids, etc. But yeah, timing belt, water pump, thermostat are probably most likely to do you dirty on the trip.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1791_11):
I took a chance buying my e30 and immediately took a 300ish mile drive to buy it. It worked out fine for me. In most contexts I am a worrier, but I took the chance the seller was honest about the timing belt and the motor reliability. IMO most decent e30s are owned by decent people. Things to think about -a few relays/fuses -(2) wire jumpers just in case -a small multimeter -basic/small tool set with with common size sockets and wrenches and screwdrivers -needlenose pliers -channel lock pliers -Crescent wrench -duct tape -2 pairs nitrile gloves -appropriate clothing for nightmare scenario -flashlight with fresh batteries -cigarette phone charger -usb power bank And once transaction is over: -lots of drinking water in case there's an issue on the road -snacks -distilled water for car -1 qt oil -check spare tire/jack is there and tire inflated (or AAA Gold membership) Without checking other ppl's recommendations this was my stab at it. I brought most of what I mentioned for my purchase-journey.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1791_2):
Don't overlook the manual transmission fluid - many do! That's a long trip without lubing the crankcase. If you are up to it, pack a spare fuel pump and main fuel injection relay or at least be prepared to look at the fuse box to see what relays can be swapped to keep you running. Also, two "weak" spots are the Injector connector under the intake (they can get corroded especially if coolant has ever dripped down there) and the fusible link in the trunk on the smaller wire that runs the length of the car (it can be eliminated temporarily in a pinch by simply bypassing it under the hood just above where the main fuel injection harness comes through the firewall). Last thing I can think of is the main fuel injection air boot as well as the vacuum hoses around it like the crankcase breather and idle control valve hose. These old BMWs just don't run well with any vacuum leaks. One more - throttle switches are often left undiagnosed and will cause a poor idle and low speed driveability. There should be an audible click upon releasing the throttle back towards its idle position with the car off - one would need to have a quiet environment and ear close for this test OR an electrical tester. While your in there make sure the same is true for the full throttle switch.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1791_3):
Originally posted by Blinch Hey all, very excited new e30 owner here! I snagged a 1988 325is on bring a trailer yesterday, and am planning to fly out to LA to collect the car, then drive it back to Seattle. The car is reportedly in good running shape, and the owner seems confident in its ability to make the drive without issue. Just to be on the safe side, what wouldn't you want to be without? Congrats on your purchase, did you end up getting the square lights with the car? You can sell those and help to offset some of the costs you have ahead of you... known and unknown. The seller wasnt able to prove he has done the timing belt, so at the very least I would have someone here in LA handle that for you. Thats the #1 thing that needs to be addressed and documented to give you the minimum level of insurance for your 1200 mile drive home. I suggest reaching out to JMP Autowerks, though there are a few others that can handle it too. There used to be members here that would do it. I live near LAX and would be happy to try and assist.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1791_4):
Originally posted by packratbimmer These old BMWs just don't run well with any vacuum leaks. A roll of duct tape will fix almost any vacuum leak on a rubber hose or boot until you can get around to sourcing a new part.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1791_5):
When planning for a long road trip, I bring spare parts that tend not to give much warning before they fail. - Fuel Pump - Alternator - Relays & fuses - Coolant hoses & drive belts (Of course, inspect these before the drive. Look for soft or bulging hoses, frayed or cracking belts, and address proactively) - You're supposed to use BMW brand coolant, but in a pinch, the premixed 50/50 stuff from the gas station will get you home. Not a bad idea to bring some sort of coolant in the car for the trip. Brake fluid and motor oil too. TIMING BELT needs to be changed asap if you have no idea when it was last replaced. Tools - Multi-meter (if you know how to use one LOL) - If the car has no jack or tool kit, pickup a cheap-o jack from AutoZone along with a basic ratchet and screwdriver set and a tire pressure gauge. If you can bring your own tools in a suitcase, be sure to grab the 10mm, 13mm, 15mm, 17mm and 19mm sockets as those are the most common sizes on an E30. Screwdrivers, pliers, hammer, socket wrench extension, etc. - Paper towels - AAA membership for the tow and hotel room discount Inspect the tires for cracks, age and tire pressure (including the SPARE), and hit the road! A pillow for your lower back and a Bluetooth speaker can really help make the trip more enjoyable. Report back & let us know how it goes. Good luck! That said, a few years ago ​I flew to Orlando to pickup an E30 and drove it back to Philly without bringing ANY of the items listed above. It covered the 1,000 miles with zero problems. Got lucky, I guess.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1791_6):
Well, if you're asking this question, then I'm going to assume you have limited mechanical experience and limited e30 experience. That's a long stretch of nothing and I've broken down in my e30 in the middle of nowhere, which was not fun and I had a full set of tools w me when my alternator took a shit. I would have to be like 12-15 beers deep before I thought driving a car I've never seen in person 1200 miles was a good idea, even w spare parts and tools.. If you're down with the adventure of a 35 year old german car breaking down in the middle of nowhere, then go for it. If you're just trying to get it home, ship it.... If I were a betting man, which I am, I would bet something is gonna break in 1200 miles. Post the BaT link

ANSWER 10 (id: 1791_7):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy Post the BaT link He bought the 'mtech2' car 1988 BMW 325is 5-Speed https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1988-bmw-325is-83/ Bid for the chance to own a 1988 BMW 325is 5-Speed at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #164,759.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1791_9):
Originally posted by e30davie Well in that case...add headlights to the list. Seller already swapped back to the rounds before the end of the auction... but couldn’t take pics of the other VIN tags