QUESTION ID: 2784

QUESTION:
I placed an order November 10th from Garagistic for some E30 Floor mount adapters and according to their tracking it places the packaged received at USPS acceptance location on November 13th. I have contacted Garagistic for the past three days about the issue and no one seems to know what the hell is going on. Prior to them not knowing where my package is at, I placed another order November 18th and it hasn't even been picked up yet. This is just ridiculous. Has anyone else had issues like this before with them. Seems as if they can't handle the logistics side of the business.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2784_0):
...it's only the 21st. In the old days, a week wasn't all that long... especially for buying things from small businesses. Not saying it's ideal, just saying a little patience sometimes pays off... t

ANSWER 2 (id: 2784_1):
It may not be of any consolation to you, but it's a growing business. They may be overwhelmed with the amount of orders they have received lately, so checking 1 order for now may not be a priority. Secondly, you need to track your package through USPS as they are the ones who have your package now or just make a claim for lost or stolen package. Personal note; I always ask for a signature to my package if I know I won't be home for arrival of goods.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2784_10):
Originally posted by benloveless1 Only just kidding guys. But really, I will wait for an email back. Kidding is well and good, but do remember that whatever you post here will probably be read by someone in future. Consider the impact this may have on any business, especially a niche one, and the humans who work there.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2784_11):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Kidding is well and good, but do remember that whatever you post here will probably be read by someone in future. Consider the impact this may have on any business, especially a niche one, and the humans who work there. I run a business myself, I understand the impacts of reviews. I believe that Garagistic is a little overwhelmed at the moment no doubt, but that’s no excuse not keep up with customers orders. They must accommodate the sale they are running and Keep up with it whether it be hiring more seasonal employees, using alternative logistic companies other than usps, etc. My reasoning for the post was to see if anyone else has had any experience as I have. No doubt I have been plenty easy to get along with. I apologize for me seeming to be hard to please.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2784_12):
Originally posted by benloveless1 I run a business myself, I understand the impacts of reviews. I believe that Garagistic is a little overwhelmed at the moment no doubt, but that’s no excuse not keep up with customers orders. They must accommodate the sale they are running and Keep up with it whether it be hiring more seasonal employees, using alternative logistic companies other than usps, etc. My reasoning for the post was to see if anyone else has had any experience as I have. No doubt I have been plenty easy to get along with. I apologize for me seeming to be hard to please. I think titling the thread WTF Garagistic gives people the view from the onset that you're complaining and looking for a reaction. Thats just my view though.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2784_13):
Wow. Poor kid. Have to wait? If it is easier, make them yourself. Otherwise, have some patience or take your money where you think it is better spent. Microwave mindset. I want it now. Try this: Breathe. Relax. Have a heart.. and a brain.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2784_2):
USPS can sometimes stop updating tracking info for a few days as they get backed up. Give it a few days, just had this happen to me with steering rack coming from LA.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2784_3):
USPS tracking leaves A LOT to be desired.. Especially if it's not Priority. ..and yah - I remember the old days of 6-8 weeks for delivery of your secret decoder ring.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2784_4):
Originally posted by Julien USPS can sometimes stop updating tracking info for a few days as they get backed up. Give it a few days, just had this happen to me with steering rack coming from LA. This. I have experienced this a lot with usps.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2784_5):
Thanks for all the replies. I called and talked to an actual person today and they are continue to work it over. According to the tracking it says it never left their floor. So I'm assuming they are either backed up or lost the package. Nevertheless, I will give it until monday before i lose my shit.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2784_6):
Originally posted by benloveless1 Thanks for all the replies. I called and talked to an actual person today and they are continue to work it over. According to the tracking it says it never left their floor. So I'm assuming they are either backed up or lost the package. Nevertheless, I will give it until monday before i lose my shit. But they probably won't be able to solve your problem by Monday, so relax, you talked to them and they will sort it out.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2784_7):
Dont "lose your shit"...work with them so come to a solution. Would you drop what you're doing at your job for someone who's freaking out, or trying to speak civil and adult? Plus its Black Friday right now, they are probably overwhelmed with orders. Their black Friday deals have already been on for a week so they probably have hundreds of orders to get through already.

ANSWER 13 (id: 2784_8):
I've had quite a few issues with USPS dropping tracking lately, but parts still arrive on time. Around black friday, Christmas, and other busy times of the year USPS won't scan at each location to increase productivity. I wouldn't worry- they'll take care of you if the package goes missing.

ANSWER 14 (id: 2784_9):
Originally posted by Powling Dont "lose your shit"...work with them so come to a solution. Would you drop what you're doing at your job for someone who's freaking out, or trying to speak civil and adult? Plus its Black Friday right now, they are probably overwhelmed with orders. Their black Friday deals have already been on for a week so they probably have hundreds of orders to get through already. Only just kidding guys. But really, I will wait for an email back.