QUESTION ID: 7

QUESTION:
I have a 24v swapped euro 1986 325e with dual pumps. Both pumps work, but the external pump hums slightly which is amplified through the body of the car. The external pump looks fairly new and is fairly quiet when I start the car but gets louder as I drive. It's really annoying and I'm chipping away at the things that make the car not fun to daily. I should note that I deleted the fuel damper as it was leaking.. I'm not sure if that increased the noise of the pump but it's possible. I am looking into the possibility that the transfer pump is dying/weak, but I really like the idea of a single pump quietly running in the tank. I haven't had luck finding a replacement transfer pump anyways. I've read a lot of threads talking about fuel starvation issues on sustained right hand turns as well as from sloshing during autocross with these cars. I haven't experienced anything like that but have only been gently driving the car on the street while I baseline the car. Here are my main questions to the e30 brain trust: 1. does the dual pump system provide any starvation mitigation? 2. are there any downsides to the single pump conversion? 3. what are people using as a suitable replacement to a failed transfer pump? thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 7_0):
Here are some answers. They may not be the best answers. 1. no 2. not that I've found 3. the single in- tank pump from a later E30. 3a. a Chevy Vega in- tank pump. 3b. a hydrocarbon- resistant frog. I'm running the later single pump in the earlier tank, and that seems to be pretty starvation- resistant. I had expected to need to do something more, but my car's so anemic that it's been fine if I keep over a quarter tank in it. Even at tracks with long sweepers... t

ANSWER 2 (id: 7_1):
Thanks Toby! I elected to go ahead with the single pump conversion and it's quite a bit simpler and much much quieter in the cabin. I used a pump from TRE performance, which was on sale for a deal. Here's everything I needed: TRE E30 255LPH pump 5ft 1/2" (12mm) Fuel Injection Hose 1/2" - 5/16" reducer 1ft 5/16" (8mm) Fuel Injection Hose I am planning to run new supply wires to the pump however as the original ones for the transfer pump are pretty small. The pump draws 7 amps while the car is running.

ANSWER 3 (id: 7_2):
I extended the under- tank pump wires, which are quite a bit chunkier. That's worked for the last decade or so. I agree- I remember looking at the lift pump wiring and thinking that it might get a bit... warm... It's tee'd off the same relay, and maybe even just off the same heavier wire in the harness. It's been a while... I think I'm running a then- new 318is pump and assembly that I may have had to shorten a little to fit into an 87 eta dual- droop metal tank with the external crossover tube. If I didn't say that, above..... t