QUESTION ID: 1925

QUESTION:
is there a splash pan / heat shield directly underneath the shifter, between the exhaust and drive shaft on an e30 ? it would start just behind the transmission and likely mate to the brushed aluminum heat shield directly behind the shifter. after putting the car together, the area around the shifter under the car looked far too clean to not have been protected. i seem to have run out of panels to install lol.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1925_0):
This one maybe? ​Sits a little further back from the transmission but iirc that's the only heat shield that sits between the exhaust and driveshaft around the shifter area​

ANSWER 2 (id: 1925_1):
Originally posted by alpinaseeone This one maybe? ​Sits a little further back from the transmission but iirc that's the only heat shield that sits between the exhaust and driveshaft around the shifter area​ cool thanks for the reply. i've got those on. it's the area just in front of that i'm questioning. where the shift arm and shift carrier live. my pops asked which got me wondering after i looked at it. i've also got the transmission splash pan which goes from under the trans to the front sub, but can't put it on, as i've added a header that crowds it out. and i have the front plastic splash shield but may have to delete it in favour of a skid plate. i might cut the plastic to accommodate the skid plate, apparently, they are hard to find in good condition so i'll try not. edit : of course i'm no where near the darn thing to get a decent pic. really sweet undercar there btw. assuming you did a full restore / rotisserie ? i'm stuck at my apt with rsv. i'll get a decent pic when i'm near the car again.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1925_3):
Ah yeah my next guess would've been the more flexible one that sits next to the transmission above the bottom of the headers. I don't think there's any other heat shields around that area - yeah see if you can get some pics of the spot you're talking about. not my car lol just a quick picture from google although hopefully get my current project looking that clean soon too

ANSWER 4 (id: 1925_4):
Originally posted by alpinaseeone Ah yeah my next guess would've been the more flexible one that sits next to the transmission above the bottom of the headers. I don't think there's any other heat shields around that area - yeah see if you can get some pics of the spot you're talking about. i'll try get one this wkend. i've been paging through images and realoem to try and find if i'm missing something. thought it was obvious enough someone would say - oh it's this stupid lol Originally posted by alpinaseeone not my car lol just a quick picture from google although hopefully get my current project looking that clean soon too after a while i don't look anymore because of seething jealousy lol.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1925_5):
lol, here's some more fuel for the jealousy fire: My previously restored E30 which currently resides in the UK (missing it more and more every day since moving)

ANSWER 6 (id: 1925_7):
Yeah thankfully so, still very new to R3V but at some point will have to make a build thread on that too. do it! some of the dry ice blasting before & after videos I've seen are outrageous https://youtu.be/Rk-kINu7oFU?si=TiWE6hv8_sCtFj-Q Night & day difference to the underside in this video ^

ANSWER 7 (id: 1925_8):
Originally posted by alpinaseeone Yeah thankfully so, still very new to R3V but at some point will have to make a build thread on that too. do it! some of the dry ice blasting before & after videos I've seen are outrageous https://youtu.be/Rk-kINu7oFU?si=TiWE6hv8_sCtFj-Q Night & day difference to the underside in this video ^ i can't find anyone local who does it. we have a number of detail businesses but they don't seem as extensive compared to other places. i'm thinking there's a business opportunity.