QUESTION ID: 2509

QUESTION:
Been considering a Z3. What do you guys think? Do they handle comparably to an E30? Are they as fun on twisty roads? Or should I look elsewhere? Definitely welcome any comments. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2509_10):
For me, the majority of E30's for sale these days have a ton of miles on them and many of them are pretty beat up. There are a ton of Z3's out there with under 100k miles on them, for reasonable prices - so I was considering getting a Z3 purely because I'm struggling to find a decent E30. But I only want to do it if a Z3 handles like an E30, because that's what I really love about E30's (especially the 318's).

ANSWER 2 (id: 2509_11):
Originally posted by mach schnell Been considering a Z3. What do you guys think? Do they handle comparably to an E30? Are they as fun on twisty roads? Or should I look elsewhere? Definitely welcome any comments. Thanks! Ive tracked an e30 over 10 yrs....I own a 99 z coupe..over 200k miles..orig owner......pm me!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2509_12):
Originally posted by flyboyx unless you get an "m" version, the seats pretty much suck. they hold their value better than a standard e36. they are fun to drive. if you are comparing cabrio to cabrio, there is less wind noise with a z3 when the top is down. i like them just fine, but i also prefer my e30. if you need to replace a hood, they are very expensive and impossible to find. don't ever buy one with a bad hood unless its almost free. non M coupe seats are the same as M seats..just diff. stitching I'm not sure about 2.8 and 3.0 verts...... but my non M seats are same as M...support, bolsters etc etc..and its a coupe

ANSWER 4 (id: 2509_2):
I went the other direction...I used to have a Z3 coupe with the M54, Ground Control, H&R, Konis, etc. it went like stink, cornered like nobody's business, and was more plush inside than an e30, but my wife hated the sport suspension and it was tiring on long trips. I also have to say the car was jinxed...it was invisible to other drivers and in the 7 years I owned it I was rearended 3 times by clueless women in SUVs. I sold it, breathed a huge sigh of relief, and have replaced it with a 1992 325iC.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2509_3):
unless you get an "m" version, the seats pretty much suck. they hold their value better than a standard e36. they are fun to drive. if you are comparing cabrio to cabrio, there is less wind noise with a z3 when the top is down. i like them just fine, but i also prefer my e30. if you need to replace a hood, they are very expensive and impossible to find. don't ever buy one with a bad hood unless its almost free.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2509_4):
Some non Ms got sport seats which are very close to M seats. I think it's just the pattern that's different. But you're right about the hood. I'm extremly lucky insurance is taking care of my hood because I probably would have been screwed.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2509_5):
..and they make great parts cars for an E30. Like say you need a rear caliper bracket bolt for your E30 race car because one fell out somewhere along the line. (not that I would no anything about that..) Don't worry, we put the bolt back in the car after the race..

ANSWER 8 (id: 2509_6):
Originally posted by stonea Some non Ms got sport seats which are very close to M seats. I think it's just the pattern that's different. But you're right about the hood. I'm extremly lucky insurance is taking care of my hood because I probably would have been screwed. somewhere around 2010 i bought a more or less running auto z3 for 600 bucks because it had no title. it was sold to me by this really sketchy lesbian. i parted it out right away and sold the hood for a lot more than i paid for the entire car. about 3 or 4 months later, she calls me saying that she needs to buy the car back and selling to me was a mistake. by then, the car was pretty much just a shell. she got really pissed and threatened to call the police. i said no problem. send them by. i will show them the bill of sale with your signature on it. she hung up and i never heard from her again. i had to cut the shell into pieces in order to scrap it out since i had no title. it was a pain but i made good money on that piece of crap.