QUESTION ID: 3483

QUESTION:
Can anyone recommend a good book for understanding the m20, Or would that be just a general motor book? well anyways Im buying an e30 325i soon and Would like a book that will help me understand how engines work and how to be able to repair them myself. I plan on being able to do as much of the work on the car as I can, My buddy is also a mechanic tho, I do know people so I wont be screwed. Thanks all!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3483_0):
Sounds like you need to start with a good general auto knowledge book..Try to find the Automotive Encyclopedia published by Goodheart Wilcox, they write good vocational ed textbooks. There's one on ebay from 2006 for about $90. Once you have that you can get more specific by getting the Bentley e30 workshop manual, that gives you more of the "how to" rather than the "why". Another good resource is the Bosch fuel injection and engine management manual, that's available on ebay and probably Amazon.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3483_1):
If you are going to work on an E30 your best bet is the Bentley manual. BMW 3 Series Service Manual 1984-1990, Bentley Publishers. It has general E30 service and repair info and M20 repair guides

ANSWER 3 (id: 3483_2):
Originally posted by DJMCGARM3 If you are going to work on an E30 your best bet is the Bentley manual. BMW 3 Series Service Manual 1984-1990, Bentley Publishers. It has general E30 service and repair info and M20 and M42 repair guides Second the Bentley manual. However, there is no information whatsoever in the E30 manual for M42 applications, and as such you need an E36 manual to cover that topic.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3483_4):
The Bentley manual is a good resource, but it leaves out some critical details. The ultimate is the official BMW e30 workshop manual, .pdfs of which can be found on the Internet. That needs to be coupled with the official BMW repair specifications document, which contains torque specs (in the original Newton-Meters) for every nut and bolt on the car. Don't ask me why the Germans (who are usually very logical) separated the torques out of the manual!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3483_5):
The bentley is great. If you want a book that covers everything but not specific to any car this textbook is great http://www.amazon.com/Tim-Gilles-Aut.../dp/B00SCUOX1M Might not be the thing for you but figured I would throw it out there. We use it in school and there it is endless good info

ANSWER 6 (id: 3483_6):
The best you can do for yourself is to befriend a friendly mechanic local to you. Find one who loves what they do and for them working on cars is not just a job.. Don't pester them with too many questions, but be upfront and honest in what you are wanting to know. You can find a multitude of resources on how an engine works and engine management systems - but often, it's better to get first hand knowledge from someone who understands it well. They can often fill in those areas/questions that text books miss. in reality - most modern cars work off similar principals and the knowledge you learn no matter the brand will help with what ever car you are working. (unless it's 2 stroke - or British - those work off black magic.) Once you get the basic principals of diagnostics figured out it's easier to adjust for the various little tweaks that are unique to brands.. Hell, even some of us that have been around this forever some times forget some of the basic stuff (usually manifest in a "oh duh.." moment.)

ANSWER 7 (id: 3483_7):
Read this before reading ANYTHING else. It'll improve your outlook on life and how/why you choose to do your own maintenance. Also available on audio book Amazon.ca https://www.amazon.ca/Zen-Art-Motorcycle-Maintenance-Inquiry/dp/0060589469 /thread!