QUESTION ID: 2173

QUESTION:
They mention it to be alright on their site: https://www.garagistic.com/products/...37e65fce&_ss=r But in reading through the forums for the previous x-brace, lots of mentions not to. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2173_0):
I don't know that I'd use something that bolts through the steering rack tabs. It's probably ultimately okay, but what's wrong with the chassis rails as your jack point?

ANSWER 2 (id: 2173_1):
I usually just use the cross member for my jack at the front (uber low long jack). which that brace covers, and as above connects to the mounting tabs for the steering rack...which is fine for "bracing" but im not convinced its a great idea to load ~600kg vertically on them. It will probably be perfectly fine, until it isn't. I'm also not convinced there is much "bracing" going on with those "feet" designs that connect to the control arm bush mounting bolts. is it not just that ~3mm bent bit of steel stopping flexing sidways?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2173_10):
Originally posted by moatilliatta I wonder why they don't weld these. I bet shipping to Garagistic is cheaper for a dense flat pack, but aren't the final shipping costs passed off to the customer? However, I bet their real cost savings is in avoiding the welding. It's got to be waaaaay cheaper to laser cut everything, bend some parts, and then throw in a bag of bolts. ...just my 2 cents.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2173_3):
Originally posted by moatilliatta I wonder why they don't weld these. I've wondered this too, I can't think of any good reason other than if they break it down for shipping?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2173_5):
I did end up using it to get off the jack stands (under the chassis rails), as I didn't want to risk the opposite side toppling over that jack stand. So far as I can tell, no ill effect. I ended up connecting with Garagistic about it and the answer was a sort of "yes and no," as in, in a pinch, should be alright. I was informed to continue using the subframe, but that just requires maneuvering the jack to the very ends of it. As for jacking from the chassis rails, still possible with the HR Race springs I have, just much less convenient than an easy go at the subframe. Concessions I guess. At least this thing doesn't grind going in and out of my driveway!

ANSWER 6 (id: 2173_7):
Originally posted by BoxE30 I did end up using it to get off the jack stands (under the chassis rails), as I didn't want to risk the opposite side toppling over that jack stand. So far as I can tell, no ill effect. I ended up connecting with Garagistic about it and the answer was a sort of "yes and no," as in, in a pinch, should be alright. I was informed to continue using the subframe, but that just requires maneuvering the jack to the very ends of it. As for jacking from the chassis rails, still possible with the HR Race springs I have, just much less convenient than an easy go at the subframe. Concessions I guess. At least this thing doesn't grind going in and out of my driveway! It does look like a potential new low point on their install photos, but perhaps not. Got any shots from the side or from the front?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2173_8):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 It does look like a potential new low point on their install photos, but perhaps not. Got any shots from the side or from the front? I'll try to get some good shots next time I'm under there

ANSWER 8 (id: 2173_9):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 It does look like a potential new low point on their install photos, but perhaps not. Got any shots from the side or from the front? Attached Files