QUESTION ID: 3325
TOPIC: soft_top_convertible

QUESTION:
I have an off street parking spot behind my house but it's under the only tree on the block. Not trying to have bird shit and sap and possibly entire limbs falling onto my soft top. Also it is on grass so I can't jack my car up or use ramps. So I found a 10ftx20ft garage 2 blocks from my house in a great/safe location. The only thing is it does not have power... What do you think the best option for getting light is? I plan on doing a fair amount of work in this garage over the winter (assuming it's not painfully cold). My pops has a mini generator with a built in inverter he said I could use (their house is only another 2 blocks away). This would be rather loud (land lord said generator is fine) but would allow me to use my super bright construction lights as well as run power tools or my soldering iron if I needed to. This would also mean i would have to have the generator outside with the garage door open (most likely, perhaps I could have it closed with a cord coming in) due to the exhaust. I was also toying around with the idea of a car battery but not sure how long that would actually last. Perhaps I could get some LED lights that don't have too much draw I could rig up to the battery. I rarely use power tools when working on my car, but it is always nice to be able to run the shop vac or even just music. Let me know what you guys think would be the most economical solution here. There was a garage with power legit across the street from me but I waited too long and it rented :(

ANSWER 1 (id: 3325_0):
Sounds like you should deal with what you can get. Using a car battery may work, but youll still of course have to have it wired up to a generator to recharge. If using a generator is cool then that solves one issue, but fuel will probably burn up your wallet if you're using the garage as often as you say you will. definitely use energy efficient methods and maybe try and get a heater unit if it really gets brutal. hitting your hands working on a car while it's cold outside hurts 10x worse.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3325_1):
Look into a kerosene heater for the winter... LED's for light. Anything that is battery powered is a plus obviously. Not that you want to invest in new tools but If you can get something like the Milwaukee m18 1/2" impact + a m18 spot light, you will have portable power than you can recharge at your home. I had a similar issue this past winter. I rented a 10x30 storage unit to store my M3 for the winter. I didn't have power or heat. I didn't do a lot of work in it, but I had a kerosene salamander to warm it up and several battery powered work lights. All my work was with hand tools however, so if you're looking to run actual power tools then a generator may be your only option. I found the 10 foot width to be quite limiting though. I know it sounds wide enough for a car but it's going to be a squeeze.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3325_11):
You might consider getting an electric meter put in and worrying the garage. Ask the owner about it and maybe they will pay for it. Probably be about as expensive as buying a generator and lighting.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3325_4):
Ive had two garage spots with just an overhead lightbulb. I went to Home Depot and found an insert for that bulb that had two electrical outlet connectors and from that Ive branched out two strip lamps, a stereo, and a welder, amongst other things. Its pretty funny that I havent blown the circuit before, but its worked. I tried to find them on Home Depots website, but couldnt.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3325_5):
My room mate mentioned solar panels as well. Not sure what is involved in rigging them up though. I will double check with the owner if he allows em. After looking around it seems there are plenty of battery powered/rechargeable work lamps for not too much ($20-50). So I may just Go that route. The owner of the garages showed me one unit to the side of mine and it had a car up on stands with a cherry picker and such. So it will fit but yes it will be tight.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3325_6):
Seems to me you can get a Honda generator for a few hundred $$ and they are virtually silent. It will def power lights and as l,on gas you're not trying to run a 5hp compressor you should be fine

ANSWER 7 (id: 3325_7):
Get a Honda or Generac portable and run some 4' shop lights with the Costco LED conversion bulbs. I just replaced several fluorescent tubes in my garage with those and BOY are they bright! Each bulb only draws 17 watts but puts out 1700 lumens.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3325_8):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars get a Honda generator for a few hundred $$ and they are virtually silent. I didn't know that. These must not be the ones that camp next to us all the time.....