QUESTION ID: 2976

QUESTION:
Understand, I write this to remember all those poor souls that slipped through my fingers on that horrible day in September of 2001 and to give you gentle readers a peek at why I am so passionate about life, my wife, triathlon and the e30. On 9/11/01, I found myself partially buried after the South Tower of the World Trade Center so violently imploded. I laid there not knowing what had just happened. As I laid on Church Street in NYC struggling to breath and unable to see anything, I really wondered what life was all about. See, as an FBI Agent, I responded to Ground Zero confident, almost cocky, that I could make a difference and help save every soul in those ill fated buildings. I laid on that hot soot filled street and remembered standing at the base of the North Tower, watching in horror as men and women leaped to their deaths from above the jet line. I thought to myself, what sort of hell were they facing inside that building to make such a leap of faith out of those windows so high above. I laid there and lost most if not all the faith I had in humanity. I laid there devastated that I could not have helped save more people. I think about all those poor people that perished right in front of my eyes, each and every day. It's a movie that plays in my head and I can't ever turn it off. I was a bit broken and lost after 9/11/01. However, three things changed my life to restore that lost faith in humanity. My beautiful wonderful wife, endurance racing and cars...BMWs and Porsche’s. After 9/11, I needed to find answers and I turned to endurance racing. I started slowly by running marathons and I found a bit of solace on those long runs but I craved more. I grew up playing football, baseball and basketball. Indeed, I played four years of Division 1 baseball at Columbia University in NYC. However, I finally found my true passion when I toed the start line at my first triathlon. I loved it. The longer and the harder the race the more I healed. I did many sprints, many Olympic distance races, many half Ironman's, 5 Ironman's, the Survival of the Shauwangunks (SOS), American Zofingen Long Course. The more unique and grassrootsy the race the more I loved it. However, the true healing came on those long training runs, long training rides and those long glorious open water swims. I rediscovered hope and love and faith and trust in humanity on those dusty roads, and in that murky fresh and salty water. After 9/11, I leaned hard on my beautiful, understanding patient wife. She always listened and seemed to understand the horrors I endured that ill-fated day. She never questioned as I struggled to find myself. In 1992, I bought my first BMW, a Delphin Gray 325i. I drove it everywhere and people came to identify me with my that incredible little car. I loved that car. Indeed, I still owned that 325i on 9/11/01. After 9/11, as I lost interest in a lot of things important to me, I eventually foolishly sold that car. I missed it the second I sold it. However, make no mistake, my passion for cars healed many wounds. See, as time wore on and I searched for answers about humanity, I became passionate about wrenching. I bought an e46 330i and a Bentley manual and spent many many hours hovering over that engine and under its chassis. However, as I learned more and more about the 3 series, something was missing. I bought an e36 325i Vert and learned more and healed more. I bought an e46 ZHP then a e36 M3 Imola red Vert, then an e46 ZCP Interlagos Blue M3. I spent many hours with these incredible cars and found a certain connection. Still something was missing and empty. My passion grew and I understood more about why people love and hate. I then bought an incredible Porsche 997.2, which I still have and love every second I spent in it and under it. Then recently, I turned to my patient wife and said that I need an e30. I just need to be in that car. So I did...I bought a 1990 325i Vert (the Verty30) and it was such the right move. I just drives right...not too fast, not perfect, underpowered but it’s right on point. Words can’t explain the joy and cathartic satisfaction I glean from this little car. Time loses me as I toil away wrenching this car. It’s been a long journey back and without my wife, triathlon and cars I would have never made it. When you all hit your knees tonight and then again before diving into that bird tomorrow, bow your head for one second and think of all those people that died on 9/11/01...I know I will.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2976_0):
Man, thats quite a story. Unreal to imagine what you saw firsthand. Great to hear the process of rehabilitation through exercise, cars and family. Wonderful thing that your wife has been supportive through the ups and downs. Without going in-depth into my own story, I have some similarities. Having a passion for cars and being a healthy outlet is definitely a blessing. I am happy to be a gearhead and love my E30

ANSWER 2 (id: 2976_1):
I lost many friends on 9/11. I can still remember driving down to the Staten Island Ferry Terminal close to where I live, just watching everything unfold before me....it was a sight I will never forget. Great story, and I think everyone on this site can agree the E30 plays a very important role in all of our lives (myself included).....I see it on social media every day....whether that be a wedding photo of someone posing with their E30, or a video blog of some E30 guys wrenching in a garage somewhere. Its funny how an inanimate object can tie you back to your past....almost like a true time machine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2976_11):
I will never forget watching that on tv. It is burned into my memory. I was lucky enough to go tdy up to philly a number of years ago and i took a day off from my assignment just to go see ground zero. It was still fenced off and just a mess. It was heartbreaking to stand at the little old church and look over that site. 9/11 is something that should never be forgotten

ANSWER 4 (id: 2976_12):
Originally posted by Echo30V It’s funny how these little e30s affect our lives. I sure don't have a story to compare to this, but I can say for a fact that my E30 has helped hold shit together for me more than once during rough times. Sometimes a machine can fill a void left by humanity. Peace be with you all this Thanksgiving.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2976_13):
Super: That old little church served as a triage area that morning. I stood there that day. Brick: Even before 9/11, my e30 was a place of psychological safety and comfort during some hard times. That’s why I’m still sad I sold that car. I feel as though I sold away some of those memories.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2976_3):
Originally posted by Echo30V See, as an FBI Agent, I responded to Ground Zero confident, almost cocky, that I could make a difference and help save every soul in those ill fated buildings. Was there a lot of FBI Agents who were there? I thought it was mostly cops & firefighters?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2976_5):
Originally posted by Echo30V Yes. There was a number of us there shoulder to shoulder with the NYPD and FDNY. All worked as one that day. Respect to all of you. Thank you

ANSWER 8 (id: 2976_7):
wow man! i think all of us that were of age to have a recollection of this can remember what they were doing on that day and how they found out. being in the airline industry at that time, this is especially important to me. this day pretty much changed everyone's life forever-at least those of us here in the U.S. of A. i can see that this obviously hits home for you more than for me however. thank you for sharing that. i can also see that writing this sort of thing is probably some sort of therapy for you. i, for one am more than happy to read what you put here so please keep it up if it helps. hopefully, you will be around here for a long time.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2976_8):
Amen, Flyboy. I think it affected almost every American, some maybe more than others. I make it a point to remember those 3,000 plus people on a daily bases and a bit more around the holidays. I still have not completely wrapped my beer bloated brain around what happened down there that day.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2976_9):
There are more and more people now who really can't recall that day due to being too young, which is weird to me. OP, I'll never be able to conceptualize what you went and continue to go through. I'm glad you're finding ways to heal, and that you have someone as helpful and supportive as your wife by your side.