QUESTION ID: 1653

QUESTION:
I havent been on this forum in forever. But I thought I come back on to share the good news. I designed the turbo with an engineer friend of mine and have been talking to some guys from Turbonetics about them building it. I need a good patent attorney so if anybody here knows of a good one let me know. Im also searching my area and the New Jersey area for one. I need one I can trust and one that can guide me through this process. I need to get the patent and personal property rights and all of the other legal junk. I plan on building a company for R&D because I have a lot of other designs for cars that I would like to work on. But anybody that can help with the attorney or may be interested in the turbo when it goes into production drop me a line. New email stknrvrs@gmail.com

ANSWER 1 (id: 1653_1):
ive seen that and mine is much simpler than that. mine also boosts gas mileage and lowers emissions. i love the vgt design but what i have is also very good. better in some ways

ANSWER 2 (id: 1653_3):
they dont know how it works. they know the benefits. i just sent them an email saying i had a design that im getting a patent for and they want me to get the patent and make a presentation

ANSWER 3 (id: 1653_4):
Originally posted by stknrvrs ive seen that and mine is much simpler than that. mine also boosts gas mileage and lowers emissions. i love the vgt design but what i have is also very good. better in some ways Interesting. Please do share again when you get that patent. See ya in two years! (Hopefully sooner).

ANSWER 4 (id: 1653_5):
So how have you validated this turbo design? I assume you know flow in the turbine vs. Q out at the shaft? Have you manufactured it and done real world tests, or did you just make a model and run some flow models? I'm just saying, a "zero lag turbo" idea that hadn't been thought of yet would have to be a pretty significant breakthrough.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1653_6):
i promise you all thats its a lot simpler than your all making it. and i must say that turbonator looks intense lol. maybe if i put it in my exhaust tips next to my muffler whistler along with some k&n stickers that will be like 100 more hp lol. we have done many searches through the list of us patents and have found nothing similar in any way to the design we have come up with. and to be honest this design could be combined with the vgt design to make a pretty nasty setup. but i just want to take things one step at a time and get all of the legal junk right so i dont get screwed out of the deal. as soon as i have all of the rights and the specs showing what it can do ill post on here again and as soon as its available for sale ill share a link. i have a bunch of ideas that i plan on starting to take to the next step and hopefully one day you will see the technology in new cars coming out. but i do plan on making the first bolt on kit for my turbo for an e30 m20. then s/m 50/2. but all will come in due time. will keep updates as to how things come along and if anybody has any good suggestions for attorneys let me know. until then ill keep the search for a good one i can trust going and hopefully get this turbo into some level of production by the end of the year

ANSWER 6 (id: 1653_7):
Originally posted by stknrvrs i promise you all thats its a lot simpler than your all making it. and i must say that turbonator looks intense lol. maybe if i put it in my exhaust tips next to my muffler whistler along with some k&n stickers that will be like 100 more hp lol. we have done many searches through the list of us patents and have found nothing similar in any way to the design we have come up with. and to be honest this design could be combined with the vgt design to make a pretty nasty setup. but i just want to take things one step at a time and get all of the legal junk right so i dont get screwed out of the deal. as soon as i have all of the rights and the specs showing what it can do ill post on here again and as soon as its available for sale ill share a link. i have a bunch of ideas that i plan on starting to take to the next step and hopefully one day you will see the technology in new cars coming out. but i do plan on making the first bolt on kit for my turbo for an e30 m20. then s/m 50/2. but all will come in due time. will keep updates as to how things come along and if anybody has any good suggestions for attorneys let me know. until then ill keep the search for a good one i can trust going and hopefully get this turbo into some level of production by the end of the year How do you know it'd work?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1653_8):
i cant really tell you how i know it will work without telling you how it works and i wont do that until i have the property rights. but the design we have come up with is guaranteed to work. the design in itself isnt radical new technology. but its looking at things from a different perspective and making things work in a slightly different manner than they normally do. as soon as i have the rights and the prototype built you will all see what i mean by an extremely simplistic design. we were all very surprised that nobody has thought of it yet.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1653_9):
Good luck with the project! Once you start the patent process you'll be able to claim "patent pending" rights I think like after 3 months or so and you can start prototyping.