QUESTION ID: 332

QUESTION:
So i was having some fun today drifting in a closed lot and the last slide could've done some serious dammage. While sideways (c.cwise - right turn ~ pass rear going outwards) i hear a loud pop and the car's rear lounches into the air and lands ON/blowing the passenger's rear tire. stock susp = new car. i then stopped and got out to inspect the car and found out that the SCREW holding the REAR DRIVER's SHOCK to the HUB was GOOONE!! i found it later in bad conditions, both the screw and the hub were kinda dethreaded. i have access to a u-pull-it style junkyard with atleast 12-15 e30's (more 4dr than 2dr, will those work? but this is just in case. Is this part salvageable or no? machine shops?? ty for your time guys..and gals *twas some scary ****...i was ohhh so close to flipping this car. :bow: bmw engineers. my last drift car would have rolled over

ANSWER 1 (id: 332_2):
Man fuck what everyone thinks. Gimme a call and well fix it. E30 drifters gotta unite. A e30 isnt the 20v hachi. You should checked the whole car before doing any hard driving ( when you bought it ).Btw i give this thread about 20 minutes before all hell breaks loose.

ANSWER 2 (id: 332_3):
ya i knew it was gonna happen... but its all worth one opinion, one good idea or one person who knows what's going on. car's perfectly driveable otherwise. I'll get to u thru sfl.d.c there's no way i could've known the condition of this part...i did check the whole car 'cause of expenriences with that 86, but i wasnt expecting this...not the first time its driven hard either btw. when i'm talking about salvageable part to-be-replaced, i'm talking about the whole A-arm/trailing arm.

ANSWER 3 (id: 332_4):
Man I forgot to torque up that bolt on my 318 and it wiggled its way out on my 350+ mile drive back to school, but I dont think it would make you flip over. I wasnt drifting ass out all over a parking lot either though so yeah.... Whatever, just get a new bolt and see if it stays in there.

ANSWER 4 (id: 332_5):
Originally posted by e30 gangsta A e30 isnt the 20v hachi. Both cars are 15-20 years old.... are you implying that hachi's somehow lack the need of preventive maintenance?? Shit, I'm buying a Toyota then. And quite honestly I dont think BMW engineers tried to predict what would happen in the case of that bolt coming loose while a car was sideways. That being said... sucks to hear about what happened. It's really impossible to check every single bolt when you buy a used car so unexpected things will always happen, especially when you're pushing the car. Edit: Follow Dave's advice below. If you need any help, let me know. - Erick

ANSWER 5 (id: 332_6):
Originally posted by etxxz ya i knew it was gonna happen... but its all worth one opinion, one good idea or one person who knows what's going on. car's perfectly driveable otherwise. I'll get to u thru sfl.d.c there's no way i could've known the condition of this part...i did check the whole car 'cause of expenriences with that 86, but i wasnt expecting this...not the first time its driven hard either btw. when i'm talking about salvageable part to-be-replaced, i'm talking about the whole A-arm/trailing arm. There's no way? How about this. Beofre you decide to put your car to a hard test like that, you check the torque of all the suspension points? I am not even going to go off on the idiocy of parking lot drifiting - it speaks for itself. As for your repair - you have two options - if the trailing arm is just messed up on the threads, you can drill it out and put a heli-coil in there and then get a Factory shock mount bolt and replace your FUBAR one, or replace the trailing arm. The only thing you'll need to do is make sure the replacement is from an ABS equipped car. Stay away from the arms from early 325s (84-85) and early 318s (also 84-85) and you should be okay.

ANSWER 6 (id: 332_7):
man lets not criticize the parking lot fun because i know better than to do stuff infront of people/cars/sidewalks. this was in the middle of nowhere behind warehouses...i'm not your usual american the shock mount bolt did not brake in the hole it just slid out stripping itself and the hole. I dont trust the heli-coil to hold up and if a machine shop rethreads the hole i'll have a bigger bolt and i'm not sure how that'll work out so i'll have to go to the junkyard. thanks for the tip on ABS e30s. btw* eric, the "hachi" is a tank. even with the almost daily beating i put it thru it never left me standing...the new owner drove it home to michigan to say the least