QUESTION ID: 2513

QUESTION:
Hello, I have a m54b30 swapped 91' 318is, it's still in the works so it's not yet running, but it's close and I need help with a couple of things. Here are some more details about the swap: its a m54b30 engine out of a 2002 530i with a 2000 z3m zf 5 speed manual transmission, the motor sits on stock e28 motor mounts referred to by the m54 swap thread while the transmission is on Garagistic's delrin trans mounts, the m54 has the m50 intake manifold swap with a vented catch can to replace the ccv system. I have a lot of questions that desperately need clear answers, so i'm going to put it in a list in no particular order:I have the chassis mounted Garagistic short shifter but I still need to get a dssr, but the problem is the the shifter joint is slightly angled towards the passenger side and the shifter is vertical. I know Garagistic has a 10 degree tilt dssr but its made for m54 swapped e30s that use the oem trans, but I don't have the oem trans I have the zf 5 speed z3m one. I contacted Garagistic about which one to use and they said my shifter joint should be perfectly vertical and that the engine isn't sitting proper which is causing the tilt. I then double checked the engine mounts and the transmission positioning and nothing seems out of the ordinary. So then I did some more research to see if similar trans also had a tilted shifter joint and sure enough they all do. So my question is: Is my engine sitting wrong to cause this tilt? If so, how can I fix it and what dssr would fit? If not, what dssr would accommodate the tilt and still line up with my shifter? I read on a Garagistic blog post that engine and trans mounts need to match in stiffness. I have delrin trans mounts, but I just have stock rubber motor mounts. In order to match I'd need to get delrin motor mounts but I can't find any that work with m54 swaps, the lowest stiffness motor mounts I found are blue 95A polyurethane mounts. So my question is: Where can I find 24v swap delrin motor mounts? Or can I get away with just using the 95A polyurethane mounts? I have no clue what exhaust manifold fits this swap. As referred to by the m54 swap thread, the cheap ebay exhaust manifold does the trick with a couple of blows from a hammer. So, I bought them and of course they didn't fit, as described by the thread I tired banging them to get them to fit, and they just would not fit no matter how big the dents were, I cut them up and re welded them to try to get them to fit and I even relocated the o2 sensors, but nothing worked. I just could not get them to fit for the life of me. I did some more research and people say the m52 manifold fit pretty well, but I do not want to go through all of that stress again with this manifold. So my question is what manifold works really well for this swap with little to no modification? Is the m52 manifold a good option? I have a new stock radiator, its the one with the integrated reservoir. My question is: What radiator hoses will work with this radiator? Are here any silicon options? As referred by the m54 swap thread, I'm using a s54 fuel regulator that is in line with the fuel lines. I don't exactly know where to put it, putting it directly after the end of the fuel lines make it poke out in the engine bay. My question is: Can I cut the fuel lines down about 6 inches so the regulator won't stick out? Is there a way I can delete the steering wheel lock? The secondary o2 sensors got in the way when I tried fitting the ebay manifold. Can I just delete the secondary o2 sensors out of the dme? Or will the engine have a problem? How do I delete the expansion tank? What drive shaft will work if i'm using the zf 5 speed z3m trans? The m54 swap thread said the front section off a z4 and the back off an e36 m3. That was for an e46 6 speed trans, but would that also work for me?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2513_0):
Hello That's many questions! You might have more luck with responses in the 24V section. I can't answer most of them, but just on the engine mounts - I ran poly transmission mounts with rubber engine mounts for a few years with no ill effects. In the end I got tired of the noise of the stiff transmission mounts as they transmit vibrations from the engine / gearbox into the cabin and swapped them for e21 rubber mounts with aluminium enforcer cups. Given that Delrin is even stiffer, I'd just go for the e21 rubber mounts to match your stock e28 rubber mounts if it's a street driven car (if it's a weekender then it probably won't bother you much). The M54 has about the same torque as my M30, so you should be fine. If you're going to stick with the Delrin mounts, then I'd think the 95A mounts should be close enough. If you go rubber, garagistic sell the e21 bushings: https://www.garagistic.com/products/...ng-oem-upgrade You need to drill out your transmission crossmember to take M10 bolts to use the e21 mounts. For your transmission, I'd imagine that the e36 328i driveshaft should work with the centre bearing reversed like an M50 swap, or a stock large guibo e30 325e driveshaft. The 6 speed is longer than the 5 speed, so the combination you listed wouldn't work. Good luck!

ANSWER 2 (id: 2513_1):
can you put a link to the headers you ordered? Im doing a M54 swap myself and i have ebay headers. The other option is M52 manifolds they just need the gargrstic SAP block offs attached. Stiffer motor mounts will certainly help, I have AKG swap mounts.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2513_2):
Originally posted by Motheye99 can you put a link to the headers you ordered? Im doing a M54 swap myself and i have ebay headers. The other option is M52 manifolds they just need the gargrstic SAP block offs attached. Stiffer motor mounts will certainly help, I have AKG swap mounts. Here’s the one I ordered https://www.ebay.com/itm/For-BMW-E46....c100005.m1851 Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 2513_3):
Originally posted by e30.matt Here’s the one I ordered https://www.ebay.com/itm/For-BMW-E46....c100005.m1851 Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Can you post your headers after you modified them. I have the same ones. These are for a E39 or E46, I think we may need the E36 M3 headers for the S52

ANSWER 5 (id: 2513_4):
Originally posted by Motheye99 Can you post your headers after you modified them. I have the same ones. These are for a E39 or E46, I think we may need the E36 M3 headers for the S52 https://www.ebay.com/itm/SR-S-M50-S5...EAAOSwbsBXpjnd the shipping is 999$ i guess a bug it used to be free the stock M52 manifolds that will work just not as powerful

ANSWER 6 (id: 2513_5):
Originally posted by Motheye99 https://www.ebay.com/itm/SR-S-M50-S5...EAAOSwbsBXpjnd the shipping is 999$ i guess a bug it used to be free the stock M52 manifolds that will work just not as powerful He probably doesn’t have any left so he jacked up the price do he wouldn’t have to remove the listing. If I used the m52 headers would I have to modify them in anyway? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 2513_6):
Originally posted by e30.matt He probably doesn’t have any left so he jacked up the price do he wouldn’t have to remove the listing. If I used the m52 headers would I have to modify them in anyway? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk smart, Ive never used any M52 manifolds but you would have to make the down pipes that come from them. When you modified your M54 headers how short did you cut them? at the collectors?

ANSWER 8 (id: 2513_7):
Originally posted by Motheye99 smart, Ive never used any M52 manifolds but you would have to make the down pipes that come from them. When you modified your M54 headers how short did you cut them? at the collectors? So what I did was cut them at the end of the collector and turned it so the bracket wouldn’t hit the car, then I treeless it to the collector. I also moved the o2 sensor locations so the sensor wasn’t hitting the car Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk