QUESTION ID: 3485

QUESTION:
I am trying to learn about the differences in the years for e30's. Post your opinions and any key differences you guys have on which year is your favorite!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3485_11):
I love the look of the front end on the 86es and the 87is, but the lack of a rear valence makes the car look incomplete. 89 is a great year as others have said.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3485_12):
Looks wise, I prefer the later models. Bigger tail lamps, has a rear valence and the front end looks cleaner. It is subjective, but maybe because I own the late model. Oh, and there was a thread about this. opinions welcom: best year of the e30?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3485_4):
The best year is the one parked in your garage. I still hold that theres nothing special anymore about pitted out 30 year old lights with corroded reflectors, but ellipsoids are cool i guess. :-P

ANSWER 4 (id: 3485_5):
Come on guyz, everyone really knows its 87. High rear arches, diving boards, and the last year for the illustrious eta engine so you gotta think it's well refined by then!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3485_6):
Late 87. You get the high arches, the rod style shifter, and I think motronic got better. Tail lights look more euro, lates look super japanese to me. Early models aren't always white or red like late models lol.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3485_7):
Originally posted by Reichart12 Come on guyz, everyone really knows its 87. High rear arches, diving boards, and the last year for the illustrious eta engine so you gotta think it's well refined by then! No way man, '86 or bust! ;D I think this is really subjective. We all love our E30s for different reasons. I got mine 3.5 years ago as a cheap replacement for my Jetta MkIII as a daily driver. I mean I know my '86 is nothing special, but I LOVE HER. I've done most of the work I've needed to do myself - my first real enthusiast car experience and it's been great. And I have no problem dailying an Eta... I drive mostly on the highway and that engine is smooth as butter. And even when I've pushed her, she's delivered. I know she's not the fastest, and maybe the diving boards, etc aren't everyone's cup of tea, but I've received more compliments and offers to buy than I can count on that car. OP - find one that you love and then enjoy it... keep her running well and do what you're meant to do with an E30 - Drive!

ANSWER 7 (id: 3485_8):
tucking in the diving boards on my 87 helped the look big time and the IS valance i have to say is pretty aggressive. wish it had a rear valance though.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3485_9):
Originally posted by stonea Wasn't there a really recent thread with the same question? Anyways 89 is usually considered the best, if its an ix 88 is the year to go. Nope, pretty sure this question has never been asked. I'm happy to inform the OP that 88 was the best year. It was the most beautiful mix of slight refreshments to the exterior, a better ECU, later tails and shortened alum bumpers. This is all without having to downgrade to an earlier model.