QUESTION ID: 3201

QUESTION:
Trying to sell my 325ic which is garaged in my parents' home. Unfortunately they want me to sell it. I haven't done any modifications or mechanical on it but it does need work on it. The car doesn't turn since the timing belt snapped. I believe am the 4th owner I had this car garaged for over 3 years now. I am currently living in San Francisco, but the car is in Southern California. I am new to the forums, and would like some advice from the seasoned owners on here

ANSWER 1 (id: 3201_0):
You should do your best to fix it and clean it as much as you can, there are tons of guides. Other then that, its hard to tell the value without pictures.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3201_1):
Originally posted by Appleseason Other then that, its hard to tell the value without pictures. $3.50, every car is worth $3.50 without pictures. OP, if you can't store it just sell it, otherwise get it transported to where you are now and arrange to fix it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3201_12):
Originally posted by djjerme I have a feeling OP just did this No big loss really. Comes to forum trying to sell car and offers nothing else in return. ^^ Bwahaha

ANSWER 4 (id: 3201_13):
Originally posted by djjerme I have a feeling OP just did this No big loss really. Comes to forum trying to sell car and offers nothing else in return. While it's fine by me if the OP reabsorbed in to the hedge we do seem to be suffering from a lack of qualified new contributors to r3v. Further, many of the noobs aren't even fun to play with as they make a post or two, get a little bit of flack and bail without retuning fire.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3201_4):
Originally posted by djjerme It's a vert with a blown motor. Around here, unless it's got an MT2 kit (and even then) it would get parted out. Worth more in parts at this point.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3201_5):
as mentioned above. selling it in that condition isn't going to do much for its value. i see cabbies with bad motors or bad transmissions sell around here all the time for a grand or so in neglected condition. in good shape and the same mechanical problems, they go for around 1.5k. i'm pretty sure thats not good news for you, but its as honest as i can be. posting a few pictures would really help out your cause. what color and what year is it? if its a clean title, rust free, metal bumper, royalblau example, i might be interested in it. my problem would be the 1400 miles of transportation needed to get it home.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3201_6):
Verts are super difficult to sell, especially non-running. Most people would rather get a clapped out coupe than a minty vert, it's crazy, but true. Also since more verts are sitting around waiting for the right buyer, it drags the cost down. I would either pay a shop to drop a new m20 into it and drive it around the Bay, or just sell it for $500 to someone looking to part it out. You WILL NOT get your money back if you pay a shop to fix the engine.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3201_7):
Get parents to take photos, put up for sale for 1/2 the cost of the cheapest running car in the same spec you can find, say you are negotiable. Await buyers. drop price weekly by 10% until you find a buyer, take money, help put car onto buyers trailer. Use money to purchase celebratory beverage, share beverage with parents. Move on with life.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3201_8):
Originally posted by e30davie Get parents to take photos, put up for sale for 1/2 the cost of the cheapest running car in the same spec you can find, say you are negotiable. Await buyers. drop price weekly by 10% until you find a buyer, take money, help put car onto buyers trailer. Use money to purchase celebratory beverage, share beverage with parents. Move on with life. :up:

ANSWER 10 (id: 3201_9):
Originally posted by e30davie Get parents to take photos, put up for sale for 1/2 the cost of the cheapest running car in the same spec you can find, say you are negotiable. Await buyers. drop price weekly by 10% until you find a buyer, take money, help put car onto buyers trailer. Use money to purchase celebratory beverage, share beverage with parents. Move on with life. Alternate solution. Get parents to take photos of themselves, put them up for sale for 1/2 the cost of the cheapest operable units in the same spec you can find, say you are very negotiable. Await organ harvesters. Drop price weekly by 10% until you find an organ harvester, take money, help put operable units in harvesters van. Use money to purchase M20, inherit house/garage. Swap engine.