QUESTION ID: 1467

QUESTION:
I just picked up a '90 325 ix. Previous owner indicated that they had installed a Whiteline front sway bar, which I found improbable after reading other threads that seemed to indicate that no aftermarket sway bars work in the ix and Whiteline's own website which denies that it fits. However, upon inspection, there is indeed a 24mm Whiteline sway bar installed. Predictably, this caused one of the stock drop links to bend and detatch from its stud. However, after speaking to my mechanic and a representative from Whiteline, it may be possible to have it work with an upgrade to the Whiteline adjustable drop links (klc180-235). The new links should be in by early next week, I will update on how it goes. If it works I imagine this would be a relief to other IX owners who have been unable to upgrade their front sway bar.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1467_2):
Whiteline used to offer a 325ix swaybar several years ago before discontinuing it. Way back in the day Eibach also used to sell a kit which was discontinued as well. So while there are currently no options on the market, there certainly used to be and it is not improbable that they are installed on some ixs somewhere. Either way, it's quite cool that you have one!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1467_4):
E36 M3 bars can also be made to work with custom end links - https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...ing-325ix-only I have an M3 bar sitting next to my iX, waiting for some mocking up.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1467_5):
Originally posted by kronus E36 M3 bars can also be made to work with custom end links - https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...ing-325ix-only I have an M3 bar sitting next to my iX, waiting for some mocking up. Correct, I have one as well. Never found the time to really fit it and make adjustable end links. However, wouldn't it be better to get a thicker rear sway bar to remove the understeer that the iX has?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1467_6):
It is possible! It ended up working with the Whiteline drop links, however, I ended up having new (much stronger) brackets custom fabricated because the old ones had been destroyed. It's possible it could be run without the reinforced brackets but I wouldn't recommend it, I have a feeling it would chew through them. It ended up very stiff, but the handling is amazing and noticeably improved, can really throw it into corners now. So there you have it, an ix with a 24mm bar, with a little creativity and $600 in fabrication work, it can be done. Pics are below. Thanks to Arcflash LLC in Bend, OR for the fabrication and installation. Originally posted by iXguido Whiteline used to offer a 325ix swaybar several years ago before discontinuing it. Way back in the day Eibach also used to sell a kit which was discontinued as well. So while there are currently no options on the market, there certainly used to be and it is not improbable that they are installed on some ixs somewhere. Either way, it's quite cool that you have one! The previous owner left the Pelican Parts receipt and it appears to just be a regular non IX bar. Attached Files

ANSWER 5 (id: 1467_8):
Originally posted by Ritzace Here is e36 M3 sway bar with GC endlinks. I really wish there was a readily available sway bar that didn’t go below the subframe Have you gotten out to drive this yet? Also what length did your endlinks end up being?