QUESTION ID: 15

QUESTION:
Hey guys. Can someone please tell me where the top of this clutch pedal spring gets hooked to? Thank you a lot an someone please tell me where the top of this clutch pedal spring gets hooked to? Thank you a lot Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 15_0):
https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-technical-forums/engine-drivetrain/transmission-driveline/198315-5spd-swap-pedal-question This might help you.

ANSWER 2 (id: 15_1):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...pedal-question This might help you. thank you. It appears that a lot of people confuse clutch assist spring (big fat spring assembly by the firewall which actually helps to push the clutch in half way thru the pedal travel) with the pedal return spring (the one I'm asking about). I don't need to run the assist spring but I don't see any reason not to run the pedal return spring since it keeps the pedal nice in place without any dangling. I just want to know where its hooked up at the top, holes in the pedal bracket or somewhere else on the car frame.

ANSWER 3 (id: 15_10):
I think it's the hole that is on the gray brace to which the black pedal bracket is attached with bolts. The hole is right in front of the black bracket. I can't make a photo because it's behind the wires.

ANSWER 4 (id: 15_11):
Originally posted by Vincenze I think it's the hole that is on the gray brace to which the black pedal bracket is attached with bolts. The hole is right in front of the black bracket. I can't make a photo because it's behind the wires. Thank you, is your car grey? I have metal brace (part of the column) and the body colored support where the steering column/pedal box gets bolted to. Here is a picture. I see one possible hole in the support where it can go . Is this it?

ANSWER 5 (id: 15_2):
To be honest I'd have to lay down and look at my car to tell you. I replaced bushings and the spring on my accelerator pedal but I haven't had to touch the other pedals yet.

ANSWER 6 (id: 15_3):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop To be honest I'd have to lay down and look at my car to tell you. I replaced bushings and the spring on my accelerator pedal but I haven't had to touch the other pedals yet. I'd really appreciate if you could take a look when you get a chance....not a big rush, still waiting for my metal clutch pedal to be delivered. Thanks for helping me out with this. PS. the kick panel will probably has to come off to see what's going on there..not sure though

ANSWER 7 (id: 15_4):
No worries. I like to cruise through this site. When I see someone asking for help or an opinion I like to try and provide some info. I've only been in the E30 club for 7 years so I'm still learning as well.

ANSWER 8 (id: 15_5):
I have a 1994 Touring with a manual. Unfortunately, its being stored temporarily not at my house. I will take a look at this, but it might take some time until I have access to the car.

ANSWER 9 (id: 15_6):
Originally posted by digger is this the one? looks that way..Is that bracket where the spring goes bolted to the main pedal box? Here is the similar setup (pic) but no such bracket and the spring (in the pic) is clearly was used somehow. Sorry for all these questions. My car was auto so I have no idea how it supposed to look like. Real OEM has some bracket shown but it's not highlighted/listed as a part (#32). Anyone has that part fiche where the part number for 32 is listed? https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...84#35211102383 Attached Files