QUESTION ID: 2576

QUESTION:
About 6 months ago my dad began redesigning his garage so he may build the 914/6 Porsche, so i was left garage less until my grandma stepped in, In January 2007, my grandfather passed away at the age of 88, and after that my grandma never touched his shop, and simply left it intact. My grandpa taught me 90% of my mechanical and electrical design knowledge in this shop, so I discussed taking it over for my automotive projects, which was a simple yes. It has taken us quite a while to set the place up for fabrication, however we have finally reached a point where we have just about everything we need. In a few years I plan on buying this house, which has a large open section of land that I can build a 2000+ SQ foot shop. Until then, this is what we got. Corner of the shop Table Lathe for bushings/etc (still shopping for a vertical drive mill Metal topped bench, which I'm currently using for differential work Parts sink, air compressor, press, and on the left is an electric hacksaw my grandpa built in the 60's Toolbox, M10 boat anchor, and shelving carrying about 20% of the parts we have in our collection Today we installed 4 more florescent lights, including another lighting circuit to run the darn things. We can finally see just about everything as we have lights at all angles. Full shop computer with its own dedicated cable modem and wireless ap, cable tv, as well as a 40H timelapse VCR which records everything we do in the shop for later high speed build viewing. This is also used for electrical fabrication Full back of the shop showing John looking like an idiot Anyway, this is the new shop, show us what yah got!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2576_1):
Nice looking shop! This is my setup. 6' wide by 28' long. It's actually under my front porch. lol We've got a power hacksaw too! Thing is old, but cool. Band saw that replaces it can also be seen. The entrance is through a single car garage, where are air compressor is as well.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2576_2):
I feel like i have used this same picture for the same kind of thread, oh well, i miss my barn so here is the picture. I think i spend more time in this barn than in my bed when i am at home, pretty much my favorite place. I figure as long as I know where things are, it is organized. Many cars have been in and out of this barn and many various swaps have been done.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2576_4):
j/k Mine is a disaster area. I have so much crap going on that I just can't seem to find time to clear it up/finish my projects. ON WITH THE TOUR!! This is my parts E28 (almost gone...), and my 535is that is taking forever to fix. Damn PO... FYI. Bilstein Sports and Eibach Pro-Kit. (not bad for DD) Most of the parts for my engine swap. Yup, that's a 265. Next up, entertainment and sustenance. Roundels, Bimmers, Bentleys, oh my! And finally. TOOLS. arh Arh ARH! What could I use this for? Believe me, the toolbox is FULL. Mostly CraftsmanI actually had to upgrade this year. (<3) ... and my latest acquisition... SNAP!!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2576_7):
Here is a picture from last summer. I currently just have my mom's garage. It would be alot different it if was mine. There is now a Costco tool box in front of my turbo car filled with tools, next to that AL race jack, jackstands etc. I also have a nice table/partswasher. I need more power/air tools. All in due time I suppose. Currently in the garage is my Mom's Toyota Highlander and my turbo car. The 2002 is in storage. I drove it for the first time in several months the other day... I can't wait to restore that car.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2576_8):
Nice. Except I don't have the "Master Kit" that would have all those parts. I just have the BMW specific ones. U2 CD for perspective. This is a big honkin' tool! ... and yes, this tool will be up for rental, after I use it. I'm just waiting on a quote from KO before I order brakes, etc so that "while I'm in there" doing the bearings, everything else will be done. I tried to post it up earlier in the DIY section, but the mods never approved it. *shrugs*