QUESTION ID: 3457

QUESTION:
Well this morning it was Elsa vs. Turkey. Final score, BMW E30 with a dented and broken nose, bird obliterated. God damn thing got hit by the car in front of me, I went into the left lane on Highway 11 to avoid, it survived and ran back across the left lane. Stupid bird. :curse:

ANSWER 1 (id: 3457_3):
Well, it is DD'd in Canada all year round. Overall she's in good shape. Any rust is surface only. Floor is in excellent shape. It's on my to-do list to deal with.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3457_5):
Atleast it didn't take flight or you probably wouldnt be here with us now. I know someone that hit a turkey going highway speed as it flew across road and he took the bird through the driver side of windshield and well may he RIP..

ANSWER 3 (id: 3457_6):
Yeah, I was pretty shocked by the damage. I know I dodged a feathered bullet today. If there had of been anything left, it would have been deep fried. LOL

ANSWER 4 (id: 3457_7):
Rolling in @70 in a 55 this am and I see the man heading the other way I start to slow and in the median yepp , Tom Turkey running in circles trying to decide when to cross in front, I was slowing for the officer and I hit em hard as Tom crosses my way! Lite traffic and SUV lady behind me was actually paying attention! Win :D!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3457_8):
there was this one time in the wee hours of a winter morning my GF and I were on the highway in our 97 Escort. You could barely see the road from the freezing horizon, lack of light and most importantly the shitty headlights. Anyway, all of the sudden I saw these three huge birds (prairie chichens?) sitting in the middle of the damn road. Since the road was frozen and I was driving a 97 Escort, I had no way of reacting without causing an accident so I hit them head-on. Caused a small crack on the lower part of the front bumper, but luckily everything else was fine

ANSWER 6 (id: 3457_9):
I had a Hawk fly into my windshield at about 60mph a few months ago. Tough son of a bitch, looked in the rearview and saw his lunch hit the ground but bird never stopped. Guess the E30 is more tough than a turkey.