QUESTION ID: 3042

QUESTION:
I don't ever bring my car to a shop, as I do all the work myself, but I'm wondering how one would handle this. My E30 was having a rough misfire, pretty much no start issue. Brought it to a reputable shop that specializes in these older BMWs. After dropping it off, I get a call pretty soon afterwards that the flywheel is faulty, causing the misfire no start issue (there's a reference pin on the flywheel that feeds timing info to the crank position sensor, to the ECU). The entire replacement will be $1750 with parts and labor. He suggested while I was in there to do the entire clutch assembly, and I was like sure. I was confident that he knew what the problem is before agreeing to the $1750. Get a call and says that after all of that the car still does not start. He checks the compression and says that it is very low (60-40psi) across all cylinders. Ok, that makes sense as to why it wouldn't start. He made sure it had spark and fuel. Says its not a headgasket issue, but rather a bottom end issue as the compression numbers increase, especially in one cylinder, after adding oil. So now I'm chasing after a new motor, which is an additional large cost. But I'm not sure if I have a leg to stand on with initially spending $1750 for a misdiagnosis. Should I be upset about this? Or is this just what I should suck up, and expect, when bringing my car to a shop? Again, I've never normally brought my car into shops for work so this is an unfamiliar experience.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3042_0):
As a former European dealership technician, this would be unacceptable. You paid for the diagnosis and the repair on the condition that your concern would be remedied. If I had done this at my dealer, there is no way we would be billing the customer anything for the incorrect repair and would most likely end up helping with the correct repair. Why wouldn't he have done a compression test in the early stages of diagnosis? I would be straight with him and tell him you shouldn't have to pay for an incorrect repair that he recommended. I'd compensate him for his diagnosis time in a show of good will and find a new mechanic. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3042_1):
Originally posted by 86bmw325e As a former European dealership technician, this would be unacceptable. You paid for the diagnosis and the repair on the condition that your concern would be remedied. If I had done this at my dealer, there is no way we would be billing the customer anything for the incorrect repair and would most likely end up helping with the correct repair. Why wouldn't he have done a compression test in the early stages of diagnosis? I would be straight with him and tell him you shouldn't have to pay for an incorrect repair that he recommended. I'd compensate him for his diagnosis time in a show of good will and find a new mechanic. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk This is more or less what I would do except that it would be a VERY surprising if he agrees. It then becomes a question of state law and whether written estimates and/or customer signatures on them are required. If he has a valid mechanics lien and decides to be dickish he could just say your car will sit til you pay him. Certainly talk to the shop but Id want to know where I stood before hand.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3042_10):
As a rule he does not use shops, after exhausting his ability and having no diagnosis he took it to one that has a good reputation. I had a similar situation with my new to me horribly running '92. The main issues I would never have figured out was the return gas line & need for a new throttle body.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3042_12):
no absolutely not. You brought the vehicle in with a no start condition and it was mis diagnosed. You are not responsible to pay for anything that does not fix the problem. Your approval to complete work is contingent on the vehicle running afterward. fwiw there is no such electrical sensory that gives signal to motronic on the flywheel.... crank position is metered via crank pulley/tone wheel at the front of the engine. someones an idiot or we are not getting the whole story

ANSWER 5 (id: 3042_2):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars This is more or less what I would do except that it would be a VERY surprising if he agrees. It then becomes a question of state law and whether written estimates and/or customer signatures on them are required. If he has a valid mechanics lien and decides to be dickish he could just say your car will sit til you pay him. Certainly talk to the shop but Id want to know where I stood before hand. The only agreement we have was a verbal, over the phone agreement. I have not signed anything beforehand. Within a couple of hours, probably 4-5 of dropping the car off I received his diagnosis, and then approved it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3042_3):
I would expect to pay cost on all new parts and that's it. Flywheel and clutch kit. No labour at all, because he is an idiot. A flywheel pin issue will give a no start issue, not a misfire, and even then you can just get a new pin and press it in. No need for a flywheel. Also, I have never seen a bottom end issue in all cylinders just happen before. 1 sure, 2 possibly, all cylinders being low because of rings..................never.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3042_4):
Ill add that I had a similar issue on an eta and it was the reference sensor not the FW. Why wouldnt he have swapped in a $40 part that takes 10 min....and your verbal ok may or may not have been sufficient, especially since it was based on incorrect info

ANSWER 8 (id: 3042_6):
Your best bet is to try to work with him on it since I bet neither of you want to go to court. Depending on state law, you might not have to pay anything because you didn't sign anything. Then again, he can probably charge storage fees for each day and then seize your car as payment when the fees exceed the value of your car. In CA the mechanic gets to determine the car's value, so he could "determine" it to be only worth 1 or 2 day's of fees. So instead of going in swinging, both of you should agree to a loss. He doesn't charge you for labor and you pay for the parts. Then decide if you want further diagnosis from him or to have it towed to a new mechanic.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3042_7):
Originally posted by McGyver So instead of going in swinging, both of you should agree to a loss. He doesn't charge you for labor and you pay for the parts. Then decide if you want further diagnosis from him or to have it towed to a new mechanic. This would be the best outcome assuming both parties are reasonable people.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3042_9):
Originally posted by lolcantturn I don't ever bring my car to a shop Originally posted by lolcantturn Brought it to a reputable shop I'm confused. :-?