QUESTION ID: 2724

QUESTION:
You guys know anything about this? Posted on their site that they are closing their doors. Curious as to why. Very sad for the employees. Gordon and Mike were class act. Lots of good memories at their show and shine. Bummer.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2724_1):
Totally sucks! I love those guys. They shipped fast, had great customer service and were honest. Great prices too. As one last testament to their good ethics, I ordered over $225 worth of stuff from them in the past week and the last of it is in transit to me right now. I’ll be interested to hear why they went out. I suspect that excess parcel costs were a contributor, they often sent orders to me in three or more shipments. Super inefficient and costly.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2724_11):
Sucks to lose another supplier. When I was first starting out with my E30 and our E36 I loved the DIY videos, and j bought a few parts from them. The catalogs were cool too since they were the only parts store to distribute a nice catalog. Sorry to see them go... Nowadays I do 99% of my shopping from FCP and eEuro anyway since they have warranties and are local enough to do warehouse pickup if it's an emergency. Sent from my moto g(6) using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 2724_4):
bav auto Could be a number of factors at play here. But I've used BAV Auto for at least 15 years and they have been simply the best. Their instructional videos have saved me thousands of dollars over the years. You could always trust their parts. Return policy was great as well. Service was top notch. Very little wait time. The bimmer I own now will be my last one so the loss is not the worst.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2724_6):
I remember getting their parts catalog in the mail in the early 2000s and I used to order a lot from them as well. Their newsletter and instructional videos on youtube have also helped me out on a few occasions. I quit ordering from them because they were usually more expensive and took longer to ship than other places, but still sad to see them go.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2724_7):
on several occasions in the past 8 months I’ve had issues with them telling me they have a part over the phone and after weeks of waiting and calling they can’t get it anymore, last instance was for an e34 rear caliper ... something Autozone had in stock. I thought it was strange especially when the rep over the phone gave me a slight attitude and told me “it’s a really old car, these parts are hard to get” a bmw parts supplier can’t get parts for a 90’s 5 series...I used fcp until I recently got a world pac account.