QUESTION ID: 3524

QUESTION:
right now i have shocks and lowering springs. I want to slam my car and camber the wheels. what upgrades and mods you guys recommend? Thanks! any ideas on some 17x9.5 4x100?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3524_0):
Sell it. Buy Honda. Log out of R3V, join Stanceworks. Or, go take your car for a drive and try to appreciate it for its entirety. It's beauty is more than sitting still in a parking lot.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3524_2):
Originally posted by Exodus_2pt0 Sell it. Buy Honda. Log out of R3V, join Stanceworks. Or, go take your car for a drive and try to appreciate it for its entirety. It's beauty is more than sitting still in a parking lot. /thread.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3524_4):
This thread sooooooooo ghey. You should definitely sell your e30 little boy. Lighting it on fire and driving off a cliff would be preferable to what you have planned.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3524_5):
Originally posted by flyboyx This thread sooooooooo ghey. You should definitely sell your e30 little boy. Lighting it on fire and driving off a cliff would be preferable to what you have planned. just because you don't like something you shouldn't hate on it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3524_7):
all of you e30 Fanatics need to chill out he is still part of the fam. Get bags if you're going to do it so you're not always low and scraping. Any "car enthusiast" needs to appreciate a car even if the think its stupid or they're not a real car enthusiast.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3524_8):
Originally posted by DaWildBeast all of you e30 Fanatics need to chill out he is still part of the fam. Get bags if you're going to do it so you're not always low and scraping. Any "car enthusiast" needs to appreciate a car even if the think its stupid or they're not a real car enthusiast. I don't believe they hate the style in it's entirety. We have respectable builds on here that are big wheel'd and bagged that get a lot of praise. There is just a lot more to it when your join date is 2016, first thread is how to camber/slam your presumably first e30, and ask super generic questions that are easily searched on Google. Kind of shows your character which isn't well received on here. Personally, I don't believe in the whole "fam" thing anymore either. So many dummies here in SOCAL rolling around in e30's that look purposely made into buckets with owners who act/look suspect . It just isn't the same anymore, fam.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3524_9):
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K_JlpS_QDgM Engineering Explained: 5 'Modifications' That'll Ruin Your Car's Performance https://www.carthrottle.com/post/engineering-explained-5-modifications-thatll-ruin-your-cars-performance/ Cars are some of the most complex forms of engineering as they combine numerous different types of technology, so it's easy to understand how bad information can float to the surface - let's look at the facts surrounding five performance modifications which might not be a good idea. It's an e30, guy. They are first things first fun as hell to drive.. no need to ruin one for yourself. Drive it stock or lowered tastefully then camber it and watch your money drain into tires, and your performance and traction capabilities be thrown out the door.