QUESTION ID: 256

QUESTION:
I was just wondering what problems people have had changing the suspensions on their e30s. I might do it with a friend, but if it is too difficult il probably do it with my gfs dad (head machanic at bmw). I would like to know what I am in for before I start this project.

ANSWER 1 (id: 256_0):
Hardest part is just dropping the tie rods and control arms off the strut housing. Sometimes its easy, sometimes its a pita. I did a full suspension without any specialty tools in my driveway in 2 hours. It can be done.

ANSWER 2 (id: 256_10):
Originally posted by E30Driv3R i am pretty sure in order to change ball joints you need to get a whole new control arm. someone correct me if im wrong. No, with the steel control arms you can press the old ball joints out and new ones in. Its pretty easy to do and a heck of a lot cheaper than a new pair of control arms.

ANSWER 3 (id: 256_11):
Ya, the problem is my gfs dad said hed only have time to do it in about 2 weeks or so. I want it done like now!!! So I think il try it out with my friend and see how that goes. My friend did his suspension, and some other dudes. Hopefully a bimmer wont be much harder.

ANSWER 4 (id: 256_12):
Originally posted by gm9142l No, with the steel control arms you can press the old ball joints out and new ones in. Its pretty easy to do and a heck of a lot cheaper than a new pair of control arms. Well... i gut got raped in the ass...... :( I have been told by alot of people that they coundnt... shit oh well and they said they repalced my control arm bushings, and i got back and there is no way that they knew i had the offset bushings. i am gonna light that place on fire!!

ANSWER 5 (id: 256_13):
Originally posted by E30Driv3R Well... i gut got raped in the ass...... :( I have been told by alot of people that they coundnt... shit oh well and they said they repalced my control arm bushings, and i got back and there is no way that they knew i had the offset bushings. i am gonna light that place on fire!! My guess is the reason most shops won't replace the balljoints separately is because the extra labor of pressing the old balljoints out and the new balljoints in offsets the cost of the complete control arm.

ANSWER 6 (id: 256_2):
If you have access to a lift, I would for sure use it. It's also nice to have the BMW spring compressor tool. Make sure to get new collars for the front struts, and start nailing them with PB blaster the night before you do the job.

ANSWER 7 (id: 256_4):
I was told that I might have to change the balljoints or tierods in the front, is that possible? And I dont think il need a spring compressor because im getting new shocks and springs

ANSWER 8 (id: 256_5):
You need a spring compressor to install the springs. Any set will do. I use a set of the threaded-rod type, and using an impact the job is pretty quick.

ANSWER 9 (id: 256_6):
yes its a good idea to change out the controls arms and tie rid ends, especially if you have never replaced them before. there is a good chance they will be destroyed while trying to remove them from the strut assembly if they are really on there.

ANSWER 10 (id: 256_7):
Originally posted by golde30 yes its a good idea to change out the controls arms and tie rid ends, especially if you have never replaced them before. there is a good chance they will be destroyed while trying to remove them from the strut assembly if they are really on there. ya, i destroyed mine when i did my suspension. i am pretty sure in order to change ball joints you need to get a whole new control arm. someone correct me if im wrong.

ANSWER 11 (id: 256_8):
My friend has a sprigns compressor, so thats not a problem. My baljoints were changed, but my tie rods are now finished, and im gonna replace them soon after I install my suspension.

ANSWER 12 (id: 256_9):
I'd let your gf's dad pull your car into his bay after hours, things are so much easier when you have the right tools and equipment. These old cars tend to fight you.