QUESTION ID: 3120

QUESTION:
I bought a parts car and as I was loading it onto the trailer to haul to scrap, I noticed this sticker on the inside door of the driver's door jam. Never seen one before.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3120_1):
The Complete Guide to European Delivery Programs http://www.bmwblog.com/2011/12/22/the-complete-guide-to-european-delivery-programs/ Read a guide of all the European Delivery programs from BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, Porsche and Volvo Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3120_11):
I would agree, I walk around junk yards looking at the mustangs, camaros, 5 and 7 series and think that someone WANTED that car. They went to a dealership, test drove it and picked it out. Now, they are moments away from being a ball of metal shards. Whomever had this one last, put it through it's paces with some nice long burn outs. I don't know what prompted the car to be parked/scavanged but the last few moments of it's life were hard. The rear tires were corded and there was 1/8" of rubber on the inner wheel wells. Everything looked to be in running condition but the interior had already been picked over the intake was missing when I bought it. I don't know what the final straw was for it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3120_3):
Seems like this car was well loved in the beginning of its life. IMO, it takes a pretty hardcore car enthusiast to order a 318 and get European delivery.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3120_5):
Can't wait to do the delivery program. I thought that you also got a code to watch portions of your car being made while you waited to go pick it up. My girlfriend wants to buy a new m3. As soon as we are done with this home remodel we are about to start I believe this will be the next major thing on our to do list.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3120_6):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Volvo also did something similar for their NA customers who wanted to experience the Nordic regions with their new car. My mother tagged along with my grandfather to do that in the early 80s. Apparently he was so stubborn that he "had to put 500 miles" on the car before returning home to Holland.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3120_7):
I really want to do this, but sadly there hasnt been too many new euro cars I would spend my money on. I hope this changes in a few years when I can realistically do it

ANSWER 7 (id: 3120_8):
Originally posted by 2mAn I really want to do this, but sadly there hasnt been too many new euro cars I would spend my money on. I hope this changes in a few years when I can realistically do it Alfa Guilia. Dark blue. Get on it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3120_9):
Originally posted by sgtskid Seems like this car was well loved in the beginning of its life. That's the sad part to me. Every time I see one of these (or any car for that matter) you have to wonder at what point did the owner stop caring about it.. Maybe it was handed down or passed on to a friend or relative, and they beat the snot out of it.