QUESTION ID: 3218

QUESTION:
Hello Everyone, I am new here and found this forum researching the E30 on the web. I have found this car that i am seriously thinking of buying which i want to tune up by turbo charging if possible or installing a E46 M3 engine and updated the suspension. Also would like to add original rims and tires. Attached are photos of the car, the owner says its a 1992 325i M Tech. He does not want to give out the vin until i see the car in person. Any advise on the car and tunning ideas is greatly appreciated. The selling price is $7,500 Mileage is 140,000 Km Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 3218_1):
It looks like a legit 325i sport that's been imported at some point. The front bumper looks like a replica or has had work done to it. The front valance cover looks legit though as it's a separate piece. It has the early style ICV setup so either they switched the valve and intake boot or the entire engine. Get the VIN and know what you're getting.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3218_2):
The eyebrows are ghey. I hope whatever is on the roof is a wrap and not paint, because that is stupid too. I can't tell if the wheels are 17" oem style 5 or a knockoff. Headlights look like depo? Look under the car very closely for rust. What I mean is that you need to put it on a lift and stand under it. Find a reputable BMW guy to schedule a pre purchase inspection since you don't sound familiar with these cars. Run a car fax, but it might not tell you much if it was indeed imported. Call bmw with the vin and see if was really an mtech 2 car. I think it looks like it has potential. There was a lot of stupid kiddie crap done to it which scares me. Someone not offering the vin would be a huge red flag to me. Perhaps it wasn't registered properly. Perhaps it's stolen. Why the fuck would a seller have a problem with giving that out?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3218_3):
Originally posted by flyboyx The eyebrows are ghey. I hope whatever is on the roof is a wrap and not paint, because that is stupid too. I can't tell if the wheels are 17" oem style 5 or a knockoff. Headlights look like depo? Look under the car very closely for rust. What I mean is that you need to put it on a lift and stand under it. Find a reputable BMW guy to schedule a pre purchase inspection since you don't sound familiar with these cars. Run a car fax, but it might not tell you much if it was indeed imported. Call bmw with the vin and see if was really an mtech 2 car. I think it looks like it has potential. There was a lot of stupid kiddie crap done to it which scares me. Someone not offering the vin would be a huge red flag to me. Perhaps it wasn't registered properly. Perhaps it's stolen. Why the fuck would a seller have a problem with giving that out? Definitely rep wheels of the STR variety.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3218_4):
Originally posted by dereliiict How is that a '92? It's a euro model. Probably made in 91, titled as a MY 92. There are late verts in the US titled as 92-93's. I believe E30 wagons went as late as 94 but never officially came over.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3218_5):
Originally posted by reelizmpro It's a euro model. Probably made in 91, titled as a MY 92. There are late verts in the US titled as 92-93's. I believe E30 wagons went as late as 94 but never officially came over. I see. I knew about the verts and tourings, but have never seen a sedan later than '91.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3218_7):
EU sedan and coupe ended in 91, tourings and verts where produced longer because the new cars were not ready for production. Tooling changes and so forth. Engine of that car is filthy, as a seller you would think they they would try and clean up a turd or a jewel if your asking serious money. What does it cost to travel to your local car wash and power wash the engine bay? say max 10 bucks cost of return means maybe seller won't knock your price down. Bring to a shop for a PPI pre purchase inspection