QUESTION ID: 3044

QUESTION:
I thought, "hey I'll place an order to save some money during UUC's 4th of July sale" as I needed brakes for the E36 (free pads with each pair of rotors) along with a few other things I needed. Hit calculate shipping and they're charging $91 to ship: front rotors/pads rear rotors/pads DSSR Underdrive Pulleys Clutch Pedal Bushings If you break it down separately, they are charging $16.73 to ship the Clutch Pedal Bushings alone. An item that could be sent First Class mail for $2.50. Just to ship the rotors it's $67.64. I have a UPS account and just shipped 70lbs worth of strut housings from Texas to Indiana for $38. Insane. Rant over. Resume your evenings gentlemen.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3044_10):
I've had overall good experiences with FCP - they did have one shipping mistake that they corrected. Shipped the incorrect rear spring pads but got the right ones out to me and even reached out to me on the forum. The only issue I've had isn't a real complaint, it's that their free shipping to the PNW is suuuuper slow. Occasionally their prices are better than ECS for Genuine BMW stuff but for OE brands I continue to use AutohausAZ. Free shipping over $50, from Arizona to the west coast is quick. And 75% off 2 day shipping if you need something faster.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3044_11):
My overall experience has been good with FCP, I use them for wear items because of their warranty. It just sucks that the DC area national rallyx event is the July 8th weekend, I ordered these parts June 16th, and I now only have 1 weekend to put the car back together and that's only if I get the parts in time. Otherwise it's putting the car back together after work and that sucks. I called USPS and FCP today. The original shocks are on the way back to the supplier and FCP had another set shipped out to me. Hopefully I will get them by Saturday.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3044_12):
also FCP price matches. i going to need some e36 internal door handles here soon. they listed at 220$ i forgot who had them at 110$, but they price matched without hesitation

ANSWER 4 (id: 3044_13):
Ive ordered over 6k in parts from fcp and have never had a bad experience and never had a messed up order. I have called them twice to make modifications to orders that were about to ship out and they were able to make it happen without a fuss.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3044_2):
That's interesting. They have screwed up one of my order's as well. I just dropped about $900 on the latest order of parts from them. Something went wrong with the shipping of the shocks for whatever reason. They changed shippers halfway here, apparently. It's been sitting less than a 15 minute drive from me for a week now. What is this bs? Yeah, the lifetime warranty is attractive. Chances are you won't use it and it doesn't matter if you can never get your parts.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3044_3):
Wow, that sucks. Mine is only 86 bucks but the odd thing is I emailed a few hours after placing the order asking them to add the spring I forgot for the "bitch tube" they said it was too late to change the order but if I order the spring they will refund shipping (still waiting for that 4.99 to come back) The initial order is processing, I got the spring today and the best part is they have them switched so it looks like I have the bulk and not the spring. They close at 1pm PST (wtf)? and the mail came at 12:50, I called got a guy that assured me he would not leave without calling to let me know what happened, poor guy must still be there 'cause I have not heard from him!

ANSWER 7 (id: 3044_4):
I had a shit shipping experience with UUC. Ordered the spece30 sway bar kit and they gave me two separate tracking numbers (assuming they shipped the front and rear in separate boxes) and one was on its way to me in MO and the other was headed to WA. So I went on this wild goose chase to get the second box rerouted through customer service. I could practically hear him rubbing his nips through the phone. When I got the one that was shipped correctly it had everything in it. I guess i at least received it on time but i wasted valuable time trying to track down a box that didnt exist.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3044_6):
That is extremely frustrating about the FCP experiences above. I haven't had issues with them (going on 3 orders) and just placed another for brakes through them, along with a few other things. Their prices are great and their monthly coupons have helped me get a couple free items I needed. And free shipping on top of all that. Matt-B- Good look! I should've just ordered through them in the first place, but initially only saw the expensive "brake kits" with Zimmerman goods. I went back and ended up finding the cheapie Meyles which fit the budget of the E36 :) Still pissed UUC wants $67 to ship rotors.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3044_7):
They say the order shipped although tracking is dead. They offered me 20 towards my next order which is nice but I doubt I'll use it. Assuming it actually ships tomorrow, it will have taken literally the entire work week to ship. (order placed 2:00am Sunday 6/25)

ANSWER 10 (id: 3044_8):
That's crazy about fcp. I've probably spent about 10k through them and have never once had an issue. I've used the lifetime warranty quiet a few times.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3044_9):
I dont think its FCP changing shippers on you, USPS subcontracts out their work a lort near me, ill pay for USPS and fedex or UPS delivers it. and i had an order process for a few days as well, until parts came in, and they showed up in a few days. had a few friends get a few 1000 back in free parts, and shipping is like 10$ on my orders. well worth it.