QUESTION ID: 2720

QUESTION:
:( i had an '86 325e, and there was an engine fire.. luckily a good samaritan was able to put it out. I think the insurance company doesn't want to deal with it anymore. Would it be a bad idea to get a 335i in the meantime before I come back to the e30 game? Now is not a good time in my life, to work on cars. If not, what are good forums you guys also frequent for the newer cars?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2720_0):
Sorry to hear about the car. I have my e92 these days as a daily, with only 40.000 miles on the clock. I recently had an accident in it, so it's going in for repairs shortly so I'll be back daily driving the e30 for a few weeks. Glad I wasn't hit in the e30 though :) I frequent e90post for e9x info, but it's not the same as here. Don't get me wrong, there are some helpful / knowledgeable members that will help you with troubleshooting problems with a bit of good humour just like here, but they tend to be in the minority - there's a ton of others who just love to post pictures about pretty minor cosmetic mods / argue about which is the best colour / interior combo, try to 'update' their cars to headlights that look like a G20 while bitching that BMWs aren't like they used to be in the e9x era, which is kinda comical coming from the e21 / e30 crowd! etc. If you pick up a good low km 335i, shouldn't cause you much grief. Were you thinking an e9x or f3x?

ANSWER 2 (id: 2720_1):
> Glad I wasn't hit in the e30 though :) word > I frequent e90post for e9x info, but it's not the same as here. ... yeah i noticed that. i guess it's the best we can do huh > If you pick up a good low km 335i, shouldn't cause you much grief. Were you thinking an e9x or f3x? 2011, so e9x, I guess right? I saw a seemingly stock one w/ 97k mi for ~ $12k. So you definitely recommend shelling out for the lower miles then?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2720_10):
Originally posted by nrubenstein The Harbor Freight extinguishers are probably fine. (Make sure that you get ones for fuel/oil fires.) But honestly, they aren’t significantly cheaper than branded Kidde extinguishers from Home Despot. Why think about it? I recently had to use a fire extinguisher, and I *really* appreciated that it worked! Oh yeah definitely thanks alot! You can't trust a fire extinguisher to do anything after a year, and I myself keep an extra gallon or two of distilled water in the trunk just in case the radiator takes a crap or something, I'll go buy an extenguisher tonight and a mount Sent from my Pixel 3 XL using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 2720_11):
Originally posted by Sonny Oh yeah definitely thanks alot! You can't trust a fire extinguisher to do anything after a year, and I myself keep an extra gallon or two of distilled water in the trunk just in case the radiator takes a crap or something, I'll go buy an extenguisher tonight and a mount Sent from my Pixel 3 XL using Tapatalk The only thing the water is useful for is cooling things down *after* you’re sure the fire is out. Unless, of course, you have a lot more of it than that.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2720_12):
Originally posted by nrubenstein The only thing the water is useful for is cooling things down *after* you’re sure the fire is out. Unless, of course, you have a lot more of it than that. Wow. Thanks man really you are right! Sent from my Pixel 3 XL using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 2720_3):
Originally posted by Sonny What caused the engine fire? We need to know so it won't bring down another E30 Good point. It's not really clear since I didn't take a close look myself, or bring it to a proper mechanic. It could have been fuel line leak or injector leak, since the adjuster said those things were melted (as well as the diagnostic port). The fire was at the very front of the engine block though.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2720_4):
Originally posted by locar Good point. It's not really clear since I didn't take a close look myself, or bring it to a proper mechanic. It could have been fuel line leak or injector leak, since the adjuster said those things were melted (as well as the diagnostic port). The fire was at the very front of the engine block though. Definitely adding those on my check list, thank you! Sent from my Pixel 3 XL using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 2720_6):
I also am having some fuel leakage issues. One point is at the top of the fuel tank where the pump mounts. Ever since replacing the pump, nobody has been able to fix the leak. Going try one more shop. Second place is near the fuel filter. The hose in that area was super dry rotted and cracked when I replaced the filter 10 years ago. Guess it's about time it lets go. Gonna get the next shop to replace all hosing from tank to engine. Don't wanna risk all my hard work and $$ going up in smoke. Let this thread be a reminder to all you kids out there, ALWAYS carry a fire extinguisher in your old car(s) and keep it in the interior for easy/quick access! This is all after I finally properly fixed all the engine oil leaks. I cannot imagine the headache and trouble that others deal with who do swaps etc. I tell ya, it's just one thing after the other.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2720_8):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella I also am having some fuel leakage issues. One point is at the top of the fuel tank where the pump mounts. Ever since replacing the pump, nobody has been able to fix the leak. Going try one more shop. Second place is near the fuel filter. The hose in that area was super dry rotted and cracked when I replaced the filter 10 years ago. Guess it's about time it lets go. Gonna get the next shop to replace all hosing from tank to engine. Don't wanna risk all my hard work and $$ going up in smoke. Let this thread be a reminder to all you kids out there, ALWAYS carry a fire extinguisher in your old car(s) and keep it in the interior for easy/quick access! This is all after I finally properly fixed all the engine oil leaks. I cannot imagine the headache and trouble that others deal with who do swaps etc. I tell ya, it's just one thing after the other. Fire extinguisher from harbor freight or home Depot? What's more reliable as you have to refill them yearly anyway, thank you! Sent from my Pixel 3 XL using Tapatalk

ANSWER 10 (id: 2720_9):
Originally posted by Sonny Fire extinguisher from harbor freight or home Depot? What's more reliable as you have to refill them yearly anyway, thank you! Sent from my Pixel 3 XL using Tapatalk The Harbor Freight extinguishers are probably fine. (Make sure that you get ones for fuel/oil fires.) But honestly, they aren’t significantly cheaper than branded Kidde extinguishers from Home Despot. Why think about it? I recently had to use a fire extinguisher, and I *really* appreciated that it worked!