QUESTION ID: 3073

QUESTION:
Hi all, New to this forum and new to the E30 as well. I currently own a 02 Z06 which I daily and enjoy. I have the opportunity to pick up my neighbors 1986 325 and seek help in determining the value of this car. Long story short, my neighbor is now sadly a widow and in a position where she needs to part ways with this E30 and selling her home as well. I have been neighbors with this family for the past 17 years since they moved in and have maybe only seen this car go down the street twice. Therefore I am aware that this car needs some love. Cars OD reads around 67k miles, it is an auto, near perfect paint, no dings, and no rips in the interior. So Black paint, auto tranny, blue cloth interior, 2 door, and sunroof, with AC for those pricing the car. As it sits, the radio, dash is not cracked and AC all work. But here is a list of parts I would plan on doing if we can reach a price for this car. Fuel Pump Fuel Filter Tires Timing belt Water Pump Any other belts Oil Change Tranny fluid Change Rear End fluid Valve spring adjustment And I'm sure more as this car has literally been sitting in the garage for 15 years or so. I would expect several unplanned expenses to come to light, like AC crapping out or similar. I have done the KBB, NADA, and Haggerty pricing but can't really seem to nail a price.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3073_1):
Welcome to e30's! Where in FL are you? We have a small shop near Fort Lauderdale that has about 90% e30 work load. The '86 would be a 325e or eS, unless it was imported grey market. It should have the 2.7l m20b27. The 325 (no letter designation) was a one-year only product in 1988 (aka "seta" for Super eta). The 325i and iS came with the 2.5l m20 that made more power. Someone probably just took the letters off to mask that it was the eta which was known for it's fuel economy and torquey low-revving engine. The 2.5 has a 6500rpm redline, the eta has 5000rpm and the seta has 6000. Easy way to tell what engine you have is the head casting numbers. 885 will be on seta and 2.5's, 200 will be on the eta engine. There also should be a sticker on the driver strut tower that will designate what engine came in the car. A couple other things to look out for. Check the condition of the hard fuel lines (replace the soft without question) and the interior of the tank. The ethanol in today's fuel seems to be doing a number with rusting the tank out when sitting for extended periods. We have been replacing a lot of them over the past few years. The brake fluid needs to be flushed anyways, but check the condition of the rubber lines. A few of them have come into the shop that had completely blocked hard brake lines. The inside of the rubber lines deteriorated and chunks went into the metal lines (one was literally impossible to clean, had to replace them). Since you have an early model, you are going to have 2 pumps. A lift pump in the tank (low pressure) to a low pressure hose to the external high pressure pump. You can change the in tank to high pressure and eliminate the external pump, but be sure to change the soft line from the lift pump to the filter with high pressure hose. With the car being "low miles" (e30 odometers are notorious for stripping the gears when the reset is pushed, hence the quotes), with it's age, expect to have dry rotted rear sub frame and trailing arm bushings. Also, miles are basically a non-issue with these cars provided they had fair to good maintenance on them. I have had many e30's over the years, many of therm approaching half a million miles on original drive trains. As far as price, it's ultimately how much you want to give and she is willing to accept, but taking into consideration it probably needs "everything" and is a clean car/interior, you are getting a good deal at 2k-ish. I bought a mint 86 325es with verified 70k miles back in 2006 and I happily handed over $3400 - needed zero maintenance outside a timing belt and fan clutch. 10yrs later and the values have increased dramatically. Back then the u-pull-it yards always had at least a handful of them, now they are picked clean the moment they are dropped in the yards. EDIT: Another tip is to put the last 7 digits of the vin into realoem.com. This will show all the specific parts to your car... http://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/select

ANSWER 2 (id: 3073_10):
Originally posted by dubdub if she really is a widow that is selling off everything, just give her what she wants for the car. She is in the ballpark. You don't want to start ownership under some bad karma, because you worked a widow down to her lowest number. That said, an eta with an automatic, and 3.73 rear gears and a chip, flies... Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. The automatic pairs well with the low reving eta... It works to keep the car in low revs, right in the middle of the torque curve. yes.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3073_12):
Originally posted by dubdub If she really is a widow that is selling off everything, just give her what she wants for the car. She is in the ballpark. You don't want to start ownership under some bad karma, because you worked a widow down to her lowest number. That said, an eta with an automatic, and 3.73 rear gears and a chip, flies... don't let anyone tell you otherwise. The automatic pairs well with the low reving eta... it works to keep the car in low revs, right in the middle of the torque curve. I totally agree with you and partly why I am seeking the forums help with the pricing. I told her I don't wanna 'steal' her treasure but would love to own it. I even told her once I get the car back in running and driving shape I would take her out to church on Sundays in this 325. That's interesting, I know these cars seem to take the chip well. Not sure if I would go that path since the Z06 does straight line and curves pretty well. Who knows. Originally posted by ForcedFirebird I never knew that, and I have owned a lot of 86 (titled) cars! I figured the badges were removed, or not put back after paint etc. I was always into GM cars until I bought my wife an e30 to daily. She never drove it and my truck blew a HG so I started to daily the BMW and tinker around with it at my shop. I haven't touched the Firebird since (decade ago already), or the Camaro for about 6yr. The e30 kinda grows on you, specially with all the enthusiasts. They are not great straight line cars, but boy are they awesome in the twisties, with just enough power. In 1988 an F-body with a 305 had 172hp @ 3300lb (but 300~tq), and the 325is had 170 with much less weight. As far as the vin, you put it in that link I gave you, and only the parts the car came with will show when you click on the pics. Make it easier when there are split dates for parts updates. The car color is also on a sticker at the driver strut tower, it will just be in German. I was hoping to find a website to give me more specifc info on this car, like the factory it came from, the build date, the seat colors and other similar options. I think that link was more of parts and prices for the car. Honestly, very briefly looked at that page, hope tonight I'll get some time to look at it more. Originally posted by Kershaw At that mileage I'd expect $5-6k. Well I don't know, I think 2k-3k for a car that needs tires, all new rubber, fuel system work and a battery, timing belt and water pump done seems to be ok.. 5-6k in running shape or 5-6k as it sits now?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3073_13):
Originally posted by Z06&E30 1213768 - last 7 of the vin, anyone got a decent site that is easy to use for this? Every link on a forum or webpage seems to leave me slightly puzzled as to what this car was optioned with or doesn't give any detail just the basics, 09/86, m20, 325, blah blah. It may be grey? Idk, its in a garage with poor lighting so I may be wrong. I'll try to get some pics. I believe this may take some time to transpire, she seems to have a high sentimental value with this car and rightfully so. Yesterday shes telling me about how all 3 daughters had their dates drive them to prom in it... Tough letting something like that go. As Mike and Frank say on American Pickers...you can't sell memories so she will never lose that. VIN check. 1213768 Transmission AUT Colour SCHWARZ (086) Upholstery (0166) Prod.date 1985-09-06 S286 BMW LA wheel BMW Styling S300 Central locking with antitheft system S410 Window lifts, electric, front S530 Air conditioning S556 Outdoor temperature indicator If it really is a low mile cream puff, I don't think I would daily it. Fair weather use to keep it out of the heat and salt. Post some pics and good luck.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3073_2):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird Welcome to e30's! Where in FL are you? We have a small shop near Fort Lauderdale that has about 90% e30 work load. The '86 would be a 325e or eS, unless it was imported grey market. It should have the 2.7l m20b27. The 325 (no letter designation) was a one-year only product in 1988 (aka "seta" for Super eta). The 325i and iS came with the 2.5l m20 that made more power. Someone probably just took the letters off to mask that it was the eta which was known for it's fuel economy and torquey low-revving engine. The 2.5 has a 6500rpm redline, the eta has 5000rpm and the seta has 6000. Easy way to tell what engine you have is the head casting numbers. 885 will be on seta and 2.5's, 200 will be on the eta engine. There also should be a sticker on the driver strut tower that will designate what engine came in the car. A couple other things to look out for. Check the condition of the hard fuel lines (replace the soft without question) and the interior of the tank. The ethanol in today's fuel seems to be doing a number with rusting the tank out when sitting for extended periods. We have been replacing a lot of them over the past few years. The brake fluid needs to be flushed anyways, but check the condition of the rubber lines. A few of them have come into the shop that had completely blocked hard brake lines. The inside of the rubber lines deteriorated and chunks went into the metal lines (one was literally impossible to clean, had to replace them). Since you have an early model, you are going to have 2 pumps. A lift pump in the tank (low pressure) to a low pressure hose to the external high pressure pump. You can change the in tank to high pressure and eliminate the external pump, but be sure to change the soft line from the lift pump to the filter with high pressure hose. With the car being "low miles" (e30 odometers are notorious for stripping the gears when the reset is pushed, hence the quotes), with it's age, expect to have dry rotted rear sub frame and trailing arm bushings. Also, miles are basically a non-issue with these cars provided they had fair to good maintenance on them. I have had many e30's over the years, many of therm approaching half a million miles on original drive trains. As far as price, it's ultimately how much you want to give and she is willing to accept, but taking into consideration it probably needs "everything" and is a clean car/interior, you are getting a good deal at 2k-ish. I bought a mint 86 325es with verified 70k miles back in 2006 and I happily handed over $3400 - needed zero maintenance outside a timing belt and fan clutch. 10yrs later and the values have increased dramatically. Back then the u-pull-it yards always had at least a handful of them, now they are picked clean the moment they are dropped in the yards. EDIT: Another tip is to put the last 7 digits of the vin into realoem.com. This will show all the specific parts to your car... http://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/select I am in the South Florida Area, about an hour north of WPB. I understand its a 325 'e' but is badge as a 325, which from my research is the same as a 325e. It's got the 4.5k rpm tach and the 2.7 like you said. This is a one owner car and never modded. Like you said, I am ready for the many problems that this car more than likely has. The OD is currently working and from what I gather from the owner has not been changed or repaired. So I do believe its 67k miles. I have only read good about the M20 in terms of reliability and but that comes with a good maintenance record and I believe this car would have been kept in ship shape until it began to sit for extended periods of time. I am pretty good with my hands and find enjoyment working on my cars so I'm not afraid of taking the project on, I just dont buy into this project too high due to the fact that the car will need a good amound of new parts ordered just to get to the point where the car can be taken out and then start tackling the gremlins and headaches as they show.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3073_3):
Originally posted by Z06&E30 I am in the South Florida Area, about an hour north of WPB. I understand its a 325 'e' but is badge as a 325, which from my research is the same as a 325e. It's got the 4.5k rpm tach and the 2.7 like you said. This is a one owner car and never modded. . The no "e" on the decklid is correct for a base 2 door in 86. When BMW dropped the 318 in 1986 they offered a flat seat manual roof 325. The 4 doors got the e badge and the 2 door sport version got the es badge in 1986. All 86 cars have the std 2.7 ETA and a 2.93:1 rear diff. If the paint is near mint and the underbody is clean, I believe $3k is more than fair if you want it to keep and not flip.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3073_4):
Originally posted by e30sh The no "e" on the decklid is correct for a base 2 door in 86. When BMW dropped the 318 in 1986 they offered a flat seat manual roof 325. The 4 doors got the e badge and the 2 door sport version got the es badge in 1986. All 86 cars have the std 2.7 ETA and a 2.93:1 rear diff. If the paint is near mint and the underbody is clean, I believe $3k is more than fair if you want it to keep and not flip. I would like to keep it and daily it. I guess I will wait to see what the final number ends up being. Looks like it would be a great little car.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3073_5):
If the car looks good, do it man! If you can snag it around the price you were thinking, you're laughing! Once you get the car sorted, get a 5-speed swap stat!

ANSWER 9 (id: 3073_6):
Originally posted by Z06&E30 So Black paint, blue cloth interior Interesting, I've never heard of this color combination on an e30. Unless it was swapped out earlier in it's lifetime. Also, without pics this car is worth about $1.67

ANSWER 10 (id: 3073_7):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Interesting, I've never heard of this color combination on an e30. Unless it was swapped out earlier in it's lifetime. Also, without pics this car is worth about $1.67 1213768 - last 7 of the vin, anyone got a decent site that is easy to use for this? Every link on a forum or webpage seems to leave me slightly puzzled as to what this car was optioned with or doesn't give any detail just the basics, 09/86, m20, 325, blah blah. It may be grey? Idk, its in a garage with poor lighting so I may be wrong. I'll try to get some pics. I believe this may take some time to transpire, she seems to have a high sentimental value with this car and rightfully so. Yesterday shes telling me about how all 3 daughters had their dates drive them to prom in it... Tough letting something like that go.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3073_8):
If she really is a widow that is selling off everything, just give her what she wants for the car. She is in the ballpark. You don't want to start ownership under some bad karma, because you worked a widow down to her lowest number. That said, an eta with an automatic, and 3.73 rear gears and a chip, flies... don't let anyone tell you otherwise. The automatic pairs well with the low reving eta... it works to keep the car in low revs, right in the middle of the torque curve.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3073_9):
Originally posted by e30sh The no "e" on the decklid is correct for a base 2 door in 86. When BMW dropped the 318 in 1986 they offered a flat seat manual roof 325. The 4 doors got the e badge and the 2 door sport version got the es badge in 1986. All 86 cars have the std 2.7 ETA and a 2.93:1 rear diff. If the paint is near mint and the underbody is clean, I believe $3k is more than fair if you want it to keep and not flip. I never knew that, and I have owned a lot of 86 (titled) cars! I figured the badges were removed, or not put back after paint etc. Originally posted by Z06&E30 I would like to keep it and daily it. I guess I will wait to see what the final number ends up being. Looks like it would be a great little car. I was always into GM cars until I bought my wife an e30 to daily. She never drove it and my truck blew a HG so I started to daily the BMW and tinker around with it at my shop. I haven't touched the Firebird since (decade ago already), or the Camaro for about 6yr. The e30 kinda grows on you, specially with all the enthusiasts. They are not great straight line cars, but boy are they awesome in the twisties, with just enough power. In 1988 an F-body with a 305 had 172hp @ 3300lb (but 300~tq), and the 325is had 170 with much less weight. As far as the vin, you put it in that link I gave you, and only the parts the car came with will show when you click on the pics. Make it easier when there are split dates for parts updates. The car color is also on a sticker at the driver strut tower, it will just be in German.