QUESTION ID: 1874

QUESTION:
What happened? I took a year off from the forum after I sold my last e30 and moved across the country. Recently I came back to the fam and found it seemingly in shambles. The best threads are some nonsense about a little kid who has a "she's dumped" cut coils POS with an M badge and something about a repeat scammer. This isn't the r3v I knew and loved. All the OG's seem to have gone, including the admins and mods. We have very few posts per day and they really aren't super stimulating. R3v may as well be a JDM forum. We have children asking questions that a simple search could remedy and no one bothers roasting them the way we all got initiated. This is a forlorn post as I miss the way it used to be. Is the e30 community dying or is it simply r3v? Either way, this is a call to pull it together guys. We have a great community here that is worth saving, few people understand this love of these special machines in such a technical way that drew me here over other BMW forums. If we are a dying breed, then let us go out in style. As in my Navy days... Hooyah R3V!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1874_1):
Obviously you missed out on our ginger who drove his e30 to Cali after his gf dumped him and was almost stabbed, had some psychological meltdown, threw money out the window while driving, posted pictures of himself going 140mph, r3v'd his e30, and came home. Great story

ANSWER 2 (id: 1874_10):
Originally posted by dereliiict Sig says it all. Exactamundo. Gotta stay with r3v. I need my occasional trainwreck and build threads to keep me going on a slow day. See: Ginger

ANSWER 3 (id: 1874_11):
Originally posted by dereliiict We have children asking questions that a simple search could remedy and no one bothers roasting them the way we all got initiated. Yep. I miss that stuff. I even miss the people who would tell you that your car looks like shit in Member's Rides, or nitpick something like "perfect respray, but your trunk badge is off by a quarter inch. Part it out." No one wants to search any more. You could probably answer a question faster by searching instead of asking it and waiting for someone to reply.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1874_2):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec There's always E30tech. Sig says it all. Originally posted by shameson Obviously you missed out on our ginger who drove his e30 to Cali after his gf dumped him and was almost stabbed, had some psychological meltdown, threw money out the window while driving, posted pictures of himself going 140mph, r3v'd his e30, and came home. Great story Tell me he's taking "selfies" at 140 mph? Please. Hero status. And unlike Donald Trump says, it's not just because he came home. ;)

ANSWER 5 (id: 1874_3):
i ruefully agree with you that its noticeably tamer here than it used to be. i think its a combination of 2 things: first, the cost of buying an 80's 3 series has been steadily on the rise which is pricing most kids out of the market. the population on the forum is maturing and less young-ins are active like it used to be. second, moderators seem to have less tolerance for our shenanigans as of late. threads that are poised to go off the rails are getting locked up before they get really good. this is probably somewhat based on the fact they they also suffer from point #1 above. god how i miss trina and stewie!! that was some funny ass shit! so....to summarize: less retarded 16 year old douchers means less r3v entertainment :(

ANSWER 6 (id: 1874_4):
Originally posted by dereliiict All the OG's seem to have gone, including the admins and mods. We have very few posts per day and they really aren't super stimulating. R3v may as well be a JDM forum. We have children asking questions that a simple search could remedy and no one bothers roasting them the way we all got initiated......as in my Navy days... Hooyah R3V!! I'll cover a few questions. Most, if not all the OG's are still here - we (I guess I'm an OG) don't post every day, cause our lives are different now. Kids, responsibilities, ect. Blunt for example is working 14 hours days running blunttech.com(Amazingly fast shipping of parts - ya got to try blunt tech once, and you'll be hooked). M3Ryan is married with like a zillion kids and running an independent VW/Audi/P-car/BMW repair shop. Others have gone on to make BMW parts as a full time gig. As far as post per day....ummmm - nope - I bet there are more. Too many to keep up with. Have you seen some of the builds? M60 swaps are the new s50. Lots of sexy build there IMHO. We still roast a noob when called for - but only for really being a butt head - there are still the "taste of my skills" and "I poped a tire" threads. If you want to really get disappointed, head on over the the r3v facebook page. That's where the noobs have gone to to ask questions. It's really sad there. Questions like "Do e36 M3 bumpers bolt on to an e30?" BTW - welcome back!

ANSWER 7 (id: 1874_6):
Originally posted by dereliiict What happened? I took a year off from the forum after I sold my last e30 and moved across the country. Recently I came back to the fam and found it seemingly in shambles. The best threads are some nonsense about a little kid who has a "she's dumped" cut coils POS with an M badge and something about a repeat scammer. This isn't the r3v I knew and loved. All the OG's seem to have gone, including the admins and mods. We have very few posts per day and they really aren't super stimulating. R3v may as well be a JDM forum. We have children asking questions that a simple search could remedy and no one bothers roasting them the way we all got initiated. This is a forlorn post as I miss the way it used to be. Is the e30 community dying or is it simply r3v? Either way, this is a call to pull it together guys. We have a great community here that is worth saving, few people understand this love of these special machines in such a technical way that drew me here over other BMW forums. If we are a dying breed, then let us go out in style. As in my Navy days... Hooyah R3V!! '13 lol

ANSWER 8 (id: 1874_7):
Originally posted by flyboyx i ruefully agree with you that its noticeably tamer here than it used to be. i think its a combination of 2 things: first, the cost of buying an 80's 3 series has been steadily on the rise which is pricing most kids out of the market. the population on the forum is maturing and less young-ins are active like it used to :( This is true. And not a moment too soon either, having recently been back on the hunt for one, I've noticed that cut springs, beat wheel arches, etc. abound on other wise nice cars. That said, it is probably a very great survival tool for the forum to adapt and, as you said mature, with those who created the atmosphere in the first place. Originally posted by george graves I'll cover a few questions. Most, if not all the OG's are still here - we (I guess I'm an OG) don't post every day, cause our lives are different now. Kids, responsibilities, ect. Blunt for example is working 14 hours days running blunttech.com(Amazingly fast shipping of parts - ya got to try blunt tech once, and you'll be hooked). M3Ryan is married with like a zillion kids and running an independent VW/Audi/P-car/BMW repair shop. Others have gone on to make BMW parts as a full time gig. As far as post per day....ummmm - nope - I bet there are more. Too many to keep up with. Have you seen some of the builds? M60 swaps are the new s50. Lots of sexy build there BTW - welcome back! Thank you sir, love Blunt's business practices. That guy has saved me many a time in the past. Everything you said is very true. The builds are progressing. In short, I haven't been here for a 'coons age like some of you, but I came here the day I bought my first e30. I had lurked for some time before and I was drawn to the community that has truly helped my knowledge base and given me the resources I needed when it mattered. Thanks guys.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1874_8):
Originally posted by dereliiict What happened? I took a year off from the forum after I sold my last e30 and moved across the country. Recently I came back to the fam and found it seemingly in shambles. The best threads are some nonsense about a little kid who has a "she's dumped" cut coils POS with an M badge and something about a repeat scammer. This isn't the r3v I knew and loved. All the OG's seem to have gone, including the admins and mods. We have very few posts per day and they really aren't super stimulating. R3v may as well be a JDM forum. We have children asking questions that a simple search could remedy and no one bothers roasting them the way we all got initiated. This is a forlorn post as I miss the way it used to be. Is the e30 community dying or is it simply r3v? Either way, this is a call to pull it together guys. We have a great community here that is worth saving, few people understand this love of these special machines in such a technical way that drew me here over other BMW forums. If we are a dying breed, then let us go out in style. As in my Navy days... Hooyah R3V!! People are posting all sorts of cool projects, so I don't know what you're talking about. The M20 is finally getting some love again with all the RHD ITB builds..