QUESTION ID: 71

QUESTION:
So I looked up what kind of battery I should use for my e30 325i and some people say different things and also use some wording that I don’t really understand too well. So I just wanted to ask here what kind of battery I should get for my e30, I looked up what kind I needed on the interstate website and it said MTP-90 T5 600 cca and then I went to a mechanics shop locally that sells interstate batteries and he gave me an MT-91 T6 I told him the model of my car and everything bmw 1989 325i vert and he said yeah this Is the one although he had a little trouble speaking English but sure of it the fact that it was right so I took his word for it. Do you guys know which one is the right one for my car? Thanks Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 71_0):
Also what coolant should I get? I’ve heard a lot of different things as well some say it matters some say it doesn’t matter, I just want a flat answer that goes along with what most e30 owners use, not something like whatever’s cheapest just because some people are cheap lol. Thanks Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 71_10):
Originally posted by Fish Milk Not gonna lie, being the big ass noob that I am I don’t know what that means, and why it’s important Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk E30 battery tray can hold both groups and they have the recommended CCA thats why. As Barry said Group 48/H6 and 94/H8 meet the requirements. Pic of my battery below (scored at PYP for $26). Attached Files

ANSWER 3 (id: 71_11):
Originally posted by Fish Milk Not gonna lie, being the big ass noob that I am I don’t know what that means, and why it’s important Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk batteries use a naming structure that starts with the word "group" and is followed by a number and then maybe some more letters our cars can use Group 48, 91, 92, 94, and many others that are european style inset posts, positive on the right hand side, and at least 600 cold cranking amps (CCA's) there are only two or three manufactures of batteries in the US and at this point they all have similar levels of quality so just pick the brand with the best warranty or the store closest to where you live. 2 or 3 year is standard and price will be anywhere from 120-170 depending on warranty and power rating. You should be able to find a Group 48 with a 2 year warranty and around 650 CCA's for around 120

ANSWER 4 (id: 71_12):
Originally posted by Das Delfin batteries use a naming structure that starts with the word "group" and is followed by a number and then maybe some more letters our cars can use Group 48, 91, 92, 94, and many others that are european style inset posts, positive on the right hand side, and at least 600 cold cranking amps (CCA's) there are only two or three manufactures of batteries in the US and at this point they all have similar levels of quality so just pick the brand with the best warranty or the store closest to where you live. 2 or 3 year is standard and price will be anywhere from 120-170 depending on warranty and power rating. You should be able to find a Group 48 with a 2 year warranty and around 650 CCA's for around 120 Thanks for the info I appreciate it, I didn’t want to wait too long so I already ordered the battery I needed from an interstate battery seller a day and a half ago, it said on their website as well that a megatron plus 90-T5 is the right battery for my car, 30 month warranty and 600 cca. You mentioned 91 and 92 but no 90, so is it okay or did I get the wrong battery? I called and everything and they said yep that’s the right fit and everything for your specific model, bmw 1989 325i Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 71_13):
What battery should I use for my e30 I’d highly recommend Costco for their Interstate batteries if you can. This is the one in my vert. I found out when my alternator went out and killed my battery that they have a full replacement warranty for 42 months. No longer pro-rate it as they did in the past. Basically they have you return it in the refund line for a full refund and then go back to automotive to buy another one. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 71_3):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 BMW battery and coolant for this guy. The batteries are pretty cheap like 100 bucks. Sorry I meant to type it all in one response haha but I heard that bmw coolant is expensive? But what do I know I’m just going based off what I’ve seen a lot of talk about when looking up which to use Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 71_4):
Originally posted by Fish Milk Sorry I meant to type it all in one response haha but I heard that bmw coolant is expensive? But what do I know I’m just going based off what I’ve seen a lot of talk about when looking up which to use Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Its like 25 bucks a jug. But its concentrate so you mix it and get two gallons from one jug

ANSWER 8 (id: 71_5):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Its like 25 bucks a jug. But its concentrate so you mix it and get two gallons from one jug Do I get both things from a bmw dealership, will it need to be ordered since our cars are old? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 9 (id: 71_6):
Make sure you get a battery like an Optima with enough CCA, I believe our cars are like 750. It's worth the extra dough, cause I had mine for close to 9 years and only died because I let it drain, while I wasn't driving the car for longer than 3 months. BMW coolant; so it helps minimize the corrosion inside your engine block. If you use others which are mainly water based or 50/50, you'll end up with rusty water if you don't drain it out at least once a year.

ANSWER 10 (id: 71_7):
The last time I looked, all of the coolants on the market are compatible with iron/aluminum block. And, color does not do anything. If you can get BMW coolant for $25 per gallon then go for it; otherwise, any other brand name would be just fine.

ANSWER 11 (id: 71_9):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Group 48/H6 is the smaller size battery that most E30's run and Group 94/H8 is the larger size. Not gonna lie, being the big ass noob that I am I don’t know what that means, and why it’s important Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk