QUESTION ID: 3583

QUESTION:
So i recently bought a 1988 SETA e30 from someone and as I get home to look through the car I came across this chip. I know not many people made chips for the 88 so I was just curious. If anyone can help me out that would be great. Came in a box labeled Corstat.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3583_0):
What you got there is an antistatic box and a chip with the part number for the later '173' ecu on a sticker stuck to it. If you put the part number into realoem.com you'll see what I mean. What the chip IS, well, it's a 20- some pin dip... with a sticker on it. Look at your ECU and see if you have that part number on it- I wouldn't think a SETA would, but what do I know? t

ANSWER 2 (id: 3583_2):
no company name - check. generically labeled - check. discarded to a trunk, glovebox, etc - check. probably ebay garbage. probably not worth your time figuring out what it is.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3583_5):
Eh, most ebay chips are just copies of legit tuning chips, like mark d or alpina. They are most likely going to be an increase in power, rpms, and necessary octane. If you're fine with replica wheels, you should be fine with replica chips. That said, I'm not fine with either.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3583_6):
Meh, they can be fun. I had one in my car for a while and it increased performance noticeably. Considering it's the ONLY mod my car had (no suspension upgrades etc) I dumped it for the stock chip. Got tired of paying for prem. gas and the additional performance on a non-daily wasn't worth it. Also it saves wear on drivetrain with stock chip

ANSWER 5 (id: 3583_7):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Meh, they can be fun. I had one in my car for a while and it increased performance noticeably. Considering it's the ONLY mod my car had (no suspension upgrades etc) I dumped it for the stock chip. Got tired of paying for prem. gas and the additional performance on a non-daily wasn't worth it. Also it saves wear on drivetrain with stock chip WHAT?!? If your E30 isnt a daily it deserves Premium, additional performance and a healthy dosage of hooning.