QUESTION ID: 290

QUESTION:
My shocks/springs on my DD need replacing so I'm wondering what a good setup you would reccomend for a DD is. No autox or track use in the near future, I just something that lowers the car a bit from stock, and keeps it fun to drive. I've heard m3 springs are good for a DD, what are the lowering specs on those? I was tossing around the idea of H&R sports and bilstein shocks, but perhaps that is a bit overkill for a DD?

ANSWER 1 (id: 290_0):
I think that the H&R/billy sport setup for a daily is a good setup to get lowered and better performance. The lowering isn't over kill also and the ride quality is good.

ANSWER 2 (id: 290_1):
I run H&R race and Billy sports daily in my eta. I love it. I enjoy a firm ride, but it is very livable and NOT bouncy. If you don't plan on going on the track at all go with the billy sports and H&R sports. Good proven street setup.

ANSWER 3 (id: 290_11):
Originally posted by Mystikal I remember www.shox.com used to be the best price, but I haven't shopped for new dampers in years. Someone else may chime in. http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=73891 I found this thread where that info you talked about was offered. I'm convinced, so which ones should I buy? I just want to drop em in and go, i don't want to dicker with adjusting unless you have specific settings you can recommend. Thanks for your info Mystikal, you just saved me from making the ride rougher on an already stiff car :)

ANSWER 4 (id: 290_12):
Your welcome! Glad I could be of help. Just puchase any Koni Single Adjustable that is for the 6-cylinder cars. Supposedly the M-Technik Koni model is slightly stiffer. I'd just run them full soft, especially with street springs (H&R Sport). I ran mine full soft even with coilovers, when they were new they were great. The adjustment becomes a factor when the damper starts aging.

ANSWER 5 (id: 290_2):
You'll want H&R Sports and not the race versions. I have the race and they are quite stiff, which I don't mind. It's nice sometimes to drive a car that has stock suspension as it's not as rough, lol.

ANSWER 6 (id: 290_5):
I'm doing this setup soon myself.. how about bushing replacements while I'm down there? What should I be replacing? People have told me that the polys are not good because of stiffness/creaking etc and that I should buy the E30 M3 offset front control arm bushes. Anything else?

ANSWER 7 (id: 290_7):
Eibachs make the car go to low for worry free daily use. I run H&R OE sports, which are just slightly higher that the regular sports, with billy hd's and the setup is perfect. The spring rates are identical as well as the shock rebound so the car handles as well as the sport setup. I highly recomend it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 290_8):
I've said this a million times before, search for Koni under my name. Koni dampers ride significantly more comfortably than Bilsteins. For the long technical reasons behind this, do the search as I mentioned.

ANSWER 9 (id: 290_9):
Originally posted by Mystikal I've said this a million times before, search for Koni under my name. Koni dampers ride significantly more comfortably than Bilsteins. For the long technical reasons behind this, do the search as I mentioned. ok, so where do i get the Konis for a good price? bimmerworld doesn't sell them.