QUESTION ID: 1674

QUESTION:
the wedophones etm manuals finally went down. just became aware of it. there are still a variety of etm's available at the miller site, but it is questionable how long that will last. grab one if you don't have it : BMW Electrical Troubleshooting Manual - ETM https://www.millerperformancecars.com/using-joomla/extensions/components/content-component/archived-articles/9-uncategorised/135-bmw-electrical-manual-list Eletrical troubleshooting manuals for BMW's from 1984 to 2001. Full BMW electrical schematics

ANSWER 1 (id: 1674_0):
They're probably all on web.archive.org, but if you find that they aren't, I archived all of the PDFs in the wedophones BMW folder. There were a lot of other folders too, most of course for phones, but some were other makes of car, and some were firearms related. If you see anything you may need some day on the internet, archive it. Storage is cheap and huge amounts of useful free information have been lost to time as the old internet has died off in favor of the modern, centralized bullshit internet.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1674_1):
Damn, this is a sad day. Every time someone asks a wiring question, I pointed them to the ETMs and told them to save a copy. I just checked and all I saved was the 1989 325i/is manual, which seemed to cover the majority of the wiring. I found some of the manuals to be missing a few systems. I guess I'll snag the miller manuals and save them to my google drive!

ANSWER 3 (id: 1674_10):
Originally posted by Gaarath378 Not just e30, pretty much everything from e9-e36, I probably wouldnt go through the effort unless someone needed something specific, or there was a large interest in having these uploaded, its probably dozens of hours of work to get these scanned. I've scanned an E21 Factory Manual "blue book",1990 E30 ETM, and some smaller books as well. The E21 "blue book" was hours of work by itself. Keeping track of all the pages. Watching out for rips on pages so they don't get jammed or make the rip worse. Doing tests to make sure the page size / scan area is correct. More tests for different quality settings / DPI and making sure the ORC works correctly. Due to file sizes I ended up scanning each chapter by itself, and I still need to find a way to combine each one into a single PDF and keep it a reasonable size. If you want to send me some books I am happy to scan them and share on the Internet Archive. Here are some that I have done already: 1990 BMW 325i 325is Electrical Troubleshooting Manual : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive https://archive.org/details/1990-bmw-325i-325is-electrical-troubleshooting-manual 1990 BMW 325i 325is Electrical Troubleshooting Manual BMW Fuel Injection - An Enlightened Approach : Jim Blanton : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive https://archive.org/details/bmw-fuel-injection-an-enlightened-approach BMW Fuel Injection - An Enlightened Approach Text by Jim Blanton and Jim C. RoweIllustrated by Paul M. WilliamsenPublished by Metric Mechanic BAE Turbo Installation Manual 1980 BMW 320i : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive https://archive.org/details/bae-turbo-installation-manual-1980-bmw-320i_202311 Turbocharger Kit Installation Instructions for 1980 BMW 320i by BAE

ANSWER 4 (id: 1674_2):
Is there an interest in having the official BMW repair/wiring manuals for e30s and other cars from the dark ages photocopied and uploaded, or is that pretty much covered (for now)? Theres a ton of those manuals in storage at our shop, and although theyll never leave the building (Ive tried to buy them a couple of times) the owner is more than okay with copies being made.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1674_3):
​​ ​ Not just e30, pretty much everything from e9-e36, I probably wouldnt go through the effort unless someone needed something specific, or there was a large interest in having these uploaded, its probably dozens of hours of work to get these scanned.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1674_5):
Not sure if we dont have them or they werent made seperate, but I have this from the 325i ETM. Also a 502 parts catalogue (in german!) from the 50s, a e12/e21 diagnostic training manual, local chapter BMW CCA Magazines from the 80s, and a Dinan application guide up to 2001, Attached are e30 relevant parts, though Dinan hasnt made most of these in many years.Some of it is slightly smoke damaged from a fire in the shop some years ago, but still legible. ​​

ANSWER 7 (id: 1674_6):
Originally posted by McGyver Do you have any manuals for the CM-5908 radio? Any other rare/cool manuals? bmw did not keep radio / stereo schematics or manuals as they were all built and provided by a third party. you have to track down who made the radio you are interested in and find it that way. harmon kardon / becker, alpine, pioneer, and possibly blaupunkt all made bmw oe installed systems. i think most in the e30 era were alpine but not all were depending on the model. pretty sure the cm5908 is alpine.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1674_8):
Originally posted by 82eye bmw did not keep radio / stereo schematics or manuals as they were all built and provided by a third party. you have to track down who made the radio you are interested in and find it that way. harmon kardon / becker, alpine, pioneer, and possibly blaupunkt all made bmw oe installed systems. i think most in the e30 era were alpine but not all were depending on the model. pretty sure the cm5908 is alpine. Yeah, the CM5908 is an Alpine unit. I've been told there was an east coast and west coast repair shop with the factory Alpine manuals. The west coast shop was sold and all the manuals were trashed, I'm not sure about the east coast one. Apparently, there were at least 2 versions of the CM5908 depending on date manufactured. I was told this by the guy who repaired my radio. He was trying to figure out a popping issue, but couldn't isolate the circuit and didn't have a manual to reference. I figured it would be a long shot, but also work asking!

ANSWER 9 (id: 1674_9):
Originally posted by McGyver Yeah, the CM5908 is an Alpine unit. I've been told there was an east coast and west coast repair shop with the factory Alpine manuals. The west coast shop was sold and all the manuals were trashed, I'm not sure about the east coast one. Apparently, there were at least 2 versions of the CM5908 depending on date manufactured. I was told this by the guy who repaired my radio. He was trying to figure out a popping issue, but couldn't isolate the circuit and didn't have a manual to reference. I figured it would be a long shot, but also work asking! rts auto had some info but i don't know about schematics.