QUESTION ID: 3217

QUESTION:
I seen this on a CL car a couple of years back. The car had a load of issues. It ran hot. Had some decent rep seats with ///M ironed on. What I remember well, Mtech wheel and on the cluster in place of the check light there was an M badge. What gives? I'm guessing it was one of those mods. But these were never factory for Mtechs?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3217_1):
It was most certainly not an m3. haha. https://c1.staticflickr.com/9/8612/16138502506_c93819ac5c_b.jpg You're right though. Only it was the M badge over the CHECK light. So that's a bit off. It didn't have the secondary spot. I'm guessing just a decal of some sort?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3217_12):
When the nagging 'light' keeps hounding me about silly things such as oil and coolant, I choose to cover it up with ///M stickers. It makes things much more peaceful for me.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3217_13):
Originally posted by tak7 When the nagging 'light' keeps hounding me about silly things such as oil and coolant, I choose to cover it up with ///M stickers. It makes things much more peaceful for me. There is a one touch button for that sir! Thanks for the replies. I see the product that was used. It was actually within the cluster (as in I could not feel it on the plastic, it could be an insert or a decal) Either way I was just making sure I didn't walk away from something special. The real reason I walked away, is the seller told me right before having it notarized (on my end) that he forged his sons documents (signature on the title) and the notary signature. His son was in jail, which is why he was not present. The guy made me believe it was his. I told him I wanted my deposit back and the guy threatened to kick my arse.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3217_8):
He was just using that m3 cluster picture as reference. What he is describing is a non-m cluster with one of those stickers over the check engine light.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3217_9):
Originally posted by jhaurimn He was just using that m3 cluster picture as reference. What he is describing is a non-m cluster with one of those stickers over the check engine light. I see. That should have been made clear. There's a guy selling an M overlay that replaces the Check light also but chances are someone just put a sticker over it.