QUESTION ID: 911

QUESTION:
Hey guys. I have a M50 G260 combo the PO put in. The shifter felt like shit so i decided to swap the bushing/DSSR and put a proper tranny brace in. I am now trying to put the tranny brace back in but the shifter arm is not lining up with the hole. Weird thing is with the old brace in it sat pretty much dead center... Shaped back to the old branch and am still having the same problem. Any ideas how i can shift this thing to the driver side????

ANSWER 1 (id: 911_2):
Originally posted by trout do you have a dssr with a ~10º twist? you're suppost to need one for this setup Yes, I am using a UUC twisted DSSR. My main problem is that the trans is over to the right so the shifter arm does not line up with the hole for the shifter

ANSWER 2 (id: 911_3):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird Maybe it's the pic, but the back of the trans looks to be to the right. Did you test fit the brace and did the holes line up? The brace goes on. Not sure what you mean by aligned with he holes though, The trans brace mounts to the body through these bolts that have the ability to slide in the rails. I had the car jacked up and leaning to the passenger side (the side its tilted to) for about 1.5 weeks with the exhaust just hanging off the headers. Any chance this shifted the motor/trans to the right?

ANSWER 3 (id: 911_4):
Very possibly, and why I asked. Maybe text didn't portray my thought correctly, but it looks to me the rear of the trans is shifted over to the right and that all the mounting holes wouldn't line up unless pulled over (which might fix your issue).

ANSWER 4 (id: 911_5):
M50 - G260 Shifter Problems I can't see the pictures, is it possible your motor mounts are in wrong? I put mine in wrong once and shredded a ton of guibos. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Pro

ANSWER 5 (id: 911_6):
Originally posted by Pdxseth I can't see the pictures, is it possible your motor mounts are in wrong? I put mine in wrong once and shredded a ton of guibos. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Pro How did you put your mounts in wrong??