QUESTION ID: 391

QUESTION:
I'm planning to install a Koni SA/IE Stage 3 Race Springs Combo. I was just wondering what all I needed to get in the way of replacing mounts and whatnot.

ANSWER 1 (id: 391_0):
Good combo. You dont HAVE to replace anything, however assuming nothing was ever replaced, it'd be a good idea to do so right now. Rear shock mounts, Upper strut mounts, etc.....

ANSWER 2 (id: 391_2):
Bare minimum would be the Rear Shock Mounts and the Front Strut Bearings. I also did tie rods, control arms, control arm bushings, and sway links, but I'm obcessive. ;) Look at the kit from Turner, they have all the screws, so you don't have to reuse the self-locking ones on the car currently.

ANSWER 3 (id: 391_4):
Originally posted by hamann318is Bare minimum would be the Rear Shock Mounts and the Front Strut Bearings. I also did tie rods, control arms, control arm bushings, and sway links, but I'm obcessive. ;) Look at the kit from Turner, they have all the screws, so you don't have to reuse the self-locking ones on the car currently. link?

ANSWER 4 (id: 391_5):
Re: what do i need for new susp install? Originally posted by robert325is I'm planning to install a Koni SA/IE Stage 3 Race Springs Combo. I was just wondering what all I needed to get in the way of replacing mounts and whatnot. That set up you're about to install is something I'm considering when I have to re-vamp my suspension. I just e-mailed Jeff Ireland the other day and threw a few questions at him about the stage 3 springs. They sound like good street/track components. As for the parts you need: definately get RSMs (at least E46 grade or aftermarket), strut bearings and hardware like the bits TJ mentioned. You will have everything apart....so why cut corners? Have you thought about getting fixed or adjustable camber plates? Now would be the time to do it. Jon

ANSWER 5 (id: 391_6):
Re: what do i need for new susp install? Originally posted by Jon325i Have you thought about getting fixed or adjustable camber plates? Now would be the time to do it. Jon yah i have... im no sure what would be better to go with though.. i do mostly daily driving and dont plan on having much track time

ANSWER 6 (id: 391_7):
Remember that nylock nuts are single use only. You should have those on hand. I just did my suspension this weekend, and for all the hardware it was about $40 as the stealership.