QUESTION ID: 1347

QUESTION:
Between the 2 cabrios and the spare top off my barn find, I don't think there is one good gas strut among them. It seems to me they should make lifting the top easier, although I have never seen anyone comment about them. Has anyone replaced them and seen a difference, does anyone give a crap and if I had some made for way less than the $40-50 or so they seem to cost, would anyone be interested ?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1347_0):
I had to replace mine over the winter. It does make it way easier to operate the soft top. Not having to balance between folding the top and keeping the lid from falling is very nice. But I'm one who appreciates things that work the way they're intended. If it doesn't bother you too much I probably wouldn't spend the 100 or so dollars to replace both Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1347_1):
Thanks for the input. I've always felt lifting the top out of the well was more work than it should be so I'm glad to hear this. Were you able to replace them with the too in the car ?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1347_10):
Folding Top Gas Struts amre - no. The rod that flips up the back of the top needs to be adjusted. It's one of the two that are connected to the motor in the right corner of the top well.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1347_12):
Here are the pics. The black arrow shows the nut I tried to adjust. I tried adjusting it all the way both ways with no change. The toneau cover still doesn't clear the rear of the top. It's only off by a bit but enough to rub and scratch the top as it closes. I just ordered the two shocks in case that's it. Attached Files

ANSWER 5 (id: 1347_13):
Originally posted by amre Here are the pics. The black arrow shows the nut I tried to adjust. I tried adjusting it all the way both ways with no change. The toneau cover still doesn't clear the rear of the top. It's only off by a bit but enough to rub and scratch the top as it closes. I just ordered the two shocks in case that's it. Did you just move the nut back and forth, or did you disconnect the rod from the motor and rotate the rod? Moving the nut back and forth does nothing. It's just there to keep the 2 pieces of the rod from rotating accidentally. Rotating the back half of the rod changes the length.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1347_2):
You mean the ones holding the tonneau cover open or the short stubby ones inside the top scissor folding mechanism? I replaced all four a couple years ago. I think the tonneau covers were like 30 each. The ones inside the top arms (which help lift the top) have these plastic sleeves they fit inside. You have to buy the sleeves with the shocks. I tried going without it and the new shocks were super tight in the sleeves and it made it harder to lift the top. Over time plastic changes shape etc etc. They DEFINITELY help lift the top. And you can install them with the top on the car. Just get a flashlight and some long pliers and a long standard screwdriver and move the top in different positions to get to what you need to get to. I think it was 80 for both shocks and both sleeves at bavauto.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1347_3):
The boot lid shocks I just replaced this morning since I can't get them made cheap enough so yes, I'm talking about the ones buried in the top mechanism. BavAuto wants $49 each and I don't think that includes the sleeve. I've asked for a quote from my at seat shock manufacturer since these seem to be the same size although obviously with different ends and 380N. Funny I never knew these things were in there.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1347_6):
Originally posted by e30rapidic there are actually shocks in the top mechanism? LOL I have to look now, never noticed them! Lol...exactly...now,you won't sleep until you replace them

ANSWER 9 (id: 1347_7):
I replaced mine with new ones. They were great when they worked but maybe after a couple years they were shot again. Haven't bothered replacing again.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1347_8):
^ I've noticed my tonneau shocks are starting to go out again, after 2 years service. They haven't completely failed but aren't as stiff as they used to be

ANSWER 11 (id: 1347_9):
Just bought a '92 and when I'm opening the auto top the tonneau cover gets stuck on the rear part of the top when it's closing again. It looks like the rear part of the top doesn't go up far enough for the tonneau to clear it. Does replacing these shocks potentially help this? Thanks,