QUESTION ID: 3161

QUESTION:
<p> Hello, My name is Dan and I am new to this forum. I found this form by looking for any type of e30 or e36 for sale and a webpage with a lot of different ads all led here. Im hoping to build up my posts and gain good reputation. Hopefully within some time in the future, I will be able to purchase a car from someone on here and own my own e30 as its been my dream since i was 11 years old. Thank you everyone! </p>

ANSWER 1 (id: 3161_0):
Welcome to r3v, and it looks like we're doing some sort of RPG introduction, so: Hello, my username is roguetoaster, and I have been here for five long years! I found this forum when I was filling out a box in a spreadsheet showing forum support trying to decide between various new-used cars, and gave it a 9/10. I've posted some, not as much as others, and have gained a mixed reputation at best. I enjoy M42s, tourings, unloved models of cars, and moderate walks on the beach. Haven't purchased a car on here, but I think I might have actually sold a car on here once to a member, but am not quite sure. It is my dream to continue to provide useful M42/touring information, and a healthy dose of snark at least once in a while. Enjoy your stay, and don't crash your E30 as soon as you get it. Driver training>16"s, turbos, or stance.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3161_4):
Ebay turbo kits, 18" rimz, 185 stretched tires/stance > driving training. Nobody needs driver training, since we drive Euro cars we are automatically IMSA drivers Also :welcome: to r3v

ANSWER 3 (id: 3161_5):
Hello Dan! Welcome!! We were all once new to the forum as well. Some of us are champions and the other's... well... they suck. If and when you get an E30, please do post some pictures as not all of us can read.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3161_7):
Welcome to R3V Dan. Good luck in your search for the car you want. There's lots of info here to get you up to speed....or expand on what you may already know about E30s. Enjoy! Jon

ANSWER 5 (id: 3161_9):
Howdy Dan! Keep an eye out on Craigslist as well. Many people sell their cars here but im of a mind to rescue any and all e30s out in the wild not being taken care of or modified or Frankensteined by one of us!