QUESTION ID: 1364

QUESTION:
I'd like to get some experiences and information gathered on what the costs have been for people to get their cabrio's interior replaced. I am currently getting quotes. My particular goals may be a slightly beyond a simple recovering because I'm covering the door panels and tonneau too, but I'd like to know what it has cost or the hours involved for the seats. PS. I'm aware of things like leatherseats.com and other premade leather sites. Not particularly interested in those stories because the costs are visible and known. I'm doing something kind of like what Jeffinhiscars did with Alcantar and M-tech cloth. Just with black and not red. I have all the materials already. I'm just trying to find costs. My quotes have been anywhere from the pure insanity of $7500 for labor to $3000. Only three quotes so far. One was the ASM you might have seen in Garage Monkey tv show (the highest quote). Another was by a friend's guy, but he has been recognized by Ferrari as one of the top Ferrari restorers in America, so I expected him to be high. Last was by a guy that I didn't like his work, attitude, or personal presentation. Lots more to go and see, but it all seems high to me. Am I nuts?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1364_0):
My oldest brother owns an upholstery shop, here in Southern California. Yes, costs of labor are going to differ, depending on workmanship and it's understandable. I'm sure you've heard of the phrase *You get what you pay for*, with that in mind, you want to make sure the people you are going to get quotes from, have some sort of certificate to back the type of money they are charging.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1364_1):
Originally posted by IRON-E My oldest brother owns an upholstery shop, here in Southern California. Yes, costs of labor are going to differ, depending on workmanship and it's understandable. I'm sure you've heard of the phrase *You get what you pay for*, with that in mind, you want to make sure the people you are going to get quotes from, have some sort of certificate to back the type of money they are charging. Is it possible to get a job done well in the $1,800-$2,500 range for the labor? Seriously, all I’m looking for. Someone to take my $1500 in materials and apply it for under $2,500.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1364_2):
I supplied my own material and paid $900 for labor on my cabrio without the doors. Still, great work and at a fair price. Markets do vary but the numbers you are getting seem VERY high. Check w John at 9Stitch. He's having interiors shipped for very reasonable amounts.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1364_4):
Originally posted by Escaport Is it possible to get a job done well in the $1,800-$2,500 range for the labor? Seriously, all I’m looking for. Someone to take my $1500 in materials and apply it for under $2,500. Possibly, but I think that as a rule of thumb any business wants to make some money on marking up materials. It's a business and they need to get paid, so they can keep the doors open. By you bringing materials in, you're undercutting the extra material the shop purchases, in case there's any mistakes and there usually is., no one is perfect.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1364_5):
Local shop installed my (slightly used) covers on the rear upper and lower seat for $250. Just another data point. I would expect to pay more for the fronts as it's more involved.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1364_6):
I just had my front and back seats re done in my 88 with real leather (just seats nothing else) with materials, labor, tax and tip I was out the door for 1600. Draw back the guy is really good and cheap, but takes forever. Seats were there for over 5 months.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1364_7):
Originally posted by wilhide3 I just had my front and back seats re done in my 88 with real leather (just seats nothing else) with materials, labor, tax and tip I was out the door for 1600. Draw back the guy is really good and cheap, but takes forever. Seats were there for over 5 months. You're probably about $12-1300 off, had you done that in Southern California on an e30. Time constraints also affect profits, so I can see why it's cheaper than others even though the guy is good.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1364_8):
Trust me, I know I got off cheap and the seats look awesome. The only problem is my wife is still yelling at me for spending that much although I have told her it was cheap. I live in rural area where cost of living is much lower the Cali..... the best part the guy knows his stuff, pulled up with my hardtop on and he instantly noticed it was an E30 and he commented that he only seen one other hardtop