QUESTION ID: 2459

QUESTION:
For those who follow them pretty neat to see them take this on

ANSWER 1 (id: 2459_0):
Originally posted by onesecond Fixed: Just watched it before I came here, also saw an F20 in the background of their last video, so maybe that's the plan.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2459_10):
Originally posted by digger how original You are right, they should have put in a Nissan UD, or maybe a Jaguar V12, or perhaps an I5 Duratorq, or a PSA X type, or even a Lada 21079 for that sweet insane rotary power.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2459_12):
Originally posted by 2mAn I wonder if they will replace all the old suspension components... also, I love how heartbroken he was over ALL OF THAT RUST ZOMG Doubtful, I bet that they'll just swap it, do some track thing and then say goodbye. Also, that's a PITA location for rust when a swap is in the works.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2459_4):
Ohhh man I definitely want to see an f20 build. I've been following this build as well https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUyNQKeXD4owhich has been neat. Not as much of a fan of them but they are pretty open with every thing they do which cool to watch. Also what am I doing wrong for embedding the YouTube videos?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2459_6):
Originally posted by onesecond Ohhh man I definitely want to see an f20 build. I've been following this build as well https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUyNQKeXD4o which has been neat. Not as much of a fan of them but they are pretty open with every thing they do which cool to watch. Also what am I doing wrong for embedding the YouTube videos? To embed, click the link/chain icon above the post text box, paste your link in, click add link, and it will make it there. F20s are neat, but I really want to see some lunatic figure out a way to shoehorn an H4 in there since my quick measurements show that it won't fit. Maybe tilted and dry sumped would work.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2459_7):
Originally posted by roguetoaster To embed, click the link/chain icon above the post text box, paste your link in, click add link, and it will make it there. F20s are neat, but I really want to see some lunatic figure out a way to shoehorn an H4 in there since my quick measurements show that it won't fit. Maybe tilted and dry sumped would work. Thanks, I kept trying to use the YouTube option at the end. Also looks like it's an LS3, never thought about an H4 but that would neat to see (if possible) I have to admit the rear end kit they put in looks quite interesting, too bad you won't see one in NA

ANSWER 7 (id: 2459_8):
Originally posted by onesecond Thanks, I kept trying to use the YouTube option at the end. Also looks like it's an LS3, never thought about an H4 but that would neat to see (if possible) I have to admit the rear end kit they put in looks quite interesting, too bad you won't see one in NA Generally, stuff from Australia is pretty reasonable to purchase for those of us in the US, and we have so many Japanese half cut importers/specialists I'd bet that finding a diff would be easy.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2459_9):
The LS3 is a little disappointing because of how common it is for us, but that diff setup is kind of hilarious. Not sure what they're doing to that engine that they need that, but it wouldn't be the first time they bought a full aftermarket exhaust and then swapped it out for a turbo setup. I doubt they're going to do that, but yeah the diff setup is something else.