QUESTION ID: 2989

QUESTION:
I've looked and looked. I've been able to learn that the Z3 blower motor is compatible with the e30. The e36 blower motor is super close to the e30 and much cheaper with tons of aftermarket options. I guess my real question is, "are there any other options than buying a used blower motor for way more money than they are worth?" I can't wrap my head around the limited options for the e30's blower motor, especially since it seems almost every single blower motor in ever e30 ever made is broken, been replaced, squeals like a pig or resembles a blender. Anybody had the chance to try out possible different options? anything out there?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2989_10):
Turner has the blower for an aluminum core. https://www.turnermotorsport.com/p-1...-motor-e30-z3/ Worldpac has 100 new ACM blowers. They're out there......

ANSWER 2 (id: 2989_13):
Hate to thread jack from earlier this year. (better than creating a thread). There are too many blowers to choose from. I am looking at this unit https://www.turnermotorsport.com/Sea...sedClearance=1 As according to RealOEM. They have multiple units. http://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/show...diagId=64_0514 This set-up has the same housing and shackle that I have. What are the differences? One for AC and non-AC? Inlet style too.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2989_3):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella agreed. Dunno why there's all these stupid posts about fan motors being NLA etc. Probably because it's a common issue? Maybe some deductive reasoning will help you achieve an answer to your dumb rhetorical question. I looked at Turner. They are out of stock with no sight of receiving any, any time soon. Originally posted by e30 gangsta You can just buy the motor new from autozone, and swap the rabbit wheels. Search on here there is a thread with a pn somewhere. Less than $100. The wheels to mine are completely ruined. That's actually why I'm looking for a new one. Thanks for the help guys! Appreciate it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2989_4):
Originally posted by jeenyus Probably because it's a common issue? Maybe some deductive reasoning will help you achieve an answer to your dumb rhetorical question. I looked at Turner. They are out of stock with no sight of receiving any, any time soon. The wheels to mine are completely ruined. That's actually why I'm looking for a new one. Thanks for the help guys! Appreciate it. Well, if it's a common issue perhaps it's been covered before? Maybe even on the first page of this section? http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=399586 In any case, when you buy one let us know where you found it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2989_6):
Originally posted by e30 gangsta You can just buy the motor new from autozone, and swap the rabbit wheels. Search on here there is a thread with a pn somewhere. Less than $100. man, it's such a fucking pain in the ass to get to the E30 blower motor and swap it out - screw that. Just buy the one that fits, spend the day it takes to swap it, and be done with it.