QUESTION ID: 3225

QUESTION:
Been looking for a good "original condition" 325is for a few months now and finally found one for a reasonable price. Everything checks out over the phone (all original, no rust, cracks, leaks, etc.) and the car looks amazing in pictures and it has a super clean CarFax history. Next step is to go look at it in person, but it's 4 hours away. I've owned plenty of mid-80's cars (mostly Toyota FJ60's and Audi's) but this would be my first e30, so I'm wondering if there's anything specific I should be looking for other than the basics? The car does have 220k on it, but from what I've read, that's not necessarily a problem if it's been taken care of (and it looks like it has been)? He has it priced right (I think) at $6k? Any insight would be helpful... thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3225_1):
Interesting Depends on the condition of the car and service records. If its an automatic, forget it. I cant see it fetching that price regardless. Check the timing belt service.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3225_10):
Seats definitely wouldn't be my first choice (they do look poorly executed), but the rest of the car is in great shape (been texting with the seller).

ANSWER 3 (id: 3225_11):
Be sure to ask about rust, even after you VIN verify that the car has lived its life in the southwest. Always a bit skeptical of an iX that doesn't have rust talk (either none or some) in the ad. I am turned away by most iX's due to rust. obviously. So if it has no rust that would be a massive plus for this particular car, and seller doesn't mention it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3225_12):
I've asked specifically about rust and he claims it's rust free (got a ton of pics and don't see any). The car started it's life in Virginia, but has been in the southwest since 2000.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3225_3):
Dunno Already I see that the wheels are not correct for the car and the antenna is not working. I would start off at $4500. It's been listed for a month. It's also not an Mtech1 car just a stock IS. It's also missing the driver's door handle trim, the driver's side bolstered is ripped but the car looks very clean. Alpine white is a popular color. For sure, assuming everything checks out, you are starting your E30 ownership right. Check to see when the idle control unit/val was changed these things often need attention but wont break the wallet either.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3225_5):
Funny, I just saw that car a few minutes ago when I was looking for yours. "ix" are another animal. I would google "e30 ix" for reviews. Main problems with them is the front CV joints going bad, and the transfer case splines stripping out but I have never owned one. I am not keen on that interior but the implication from the details implies he took care of the car.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3225_6):
That interior looks dumb as shit, but I miss my red IX all the time. They look so good. I would definitely be looking at that one. It looks to be in great condition. Very well taken care of. The CV joints themselves don't go bad too often, it's the rubber boot that brakes. The boot is a fairly straightforward replacement. The angle, when lowered, is pretty extreme so the boots are under a lot of stress. If they're old, they just pop. Even new, the passenger side (under the exhaust) rarely lasts more than 4 years. Man, if I were local, I'd buy that. I don't care about the stupid grommets and I don't even have space. Red on tan looks so good.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3225_7):
Originally posted by Kershaw That interior looks dumb as shit, but I miss my red IX all the time. They look so good. I would definitely be looking at that one. It looks to be in great condition. Very well taken care of. The CV joints themselves don't go bad too often, it's the rubber boot that brakes. The boot is a fairly straightforward replacement. The angle, when lowered, is pretty extreme so the boots are under a lot of stress. If they're old, they just pop. Even new, the passenger side (under the exhaust) rarely lasts more than 4 years. Man, if I were local, I'd buy that. I don't care about the stupid grommets and I don't even have space. Red on tan looks so good. Red ix +1 Probably my favorite e30 configuration, ever.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3225_8):
So now I'm looking at the "ix"... might be flying down to Vegas to check that out. Sucks that it's non-original paint/interior, but I'd love to own an "ix".