QUESTION ID: 1644

QUESTION:
Hello, Planning out my TRE-340 install in preparation for turbo, going to delete my inline pump and run just the in-tank. I recently learned that the pickup on the tank is 10mm but the TRE outlet is 8mm. I was curious how others have gone about installing this. I don’t think there’s enough length to use a brass reducer. I’m considering printing an adapter out of PETG but would much prefer to have a more robust solution.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1644_0):
Don't overthink it, it's a 2 mm difference, just use a hose. Get a hose that fits the smaller fitting, and then warm it, expand it with a screwdriver or a socket or whatever you have that will work without damaging the hose, then immediately jam it on to the larger fitting. Leave it long while you work with it so there is some handling ability, and then cut it to the length you need before making the other connection.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1644_1):
Many solutions to this but the most straight forward ones that worked for me are : 1. Cut the small end of the reducer shorter and use hose clamps. This means placing the outlet of the pump directly in front of the inlet. 2. Use a hose sized in between the outlet and inlet like rogue described. If the inlet is 10mm and outlet is 8mm...use a 9mm hose with clamps. Make sure to use submersible fuel hose.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1644_10):
Originally posted by NathanR I asked TRE for instructions and got a similar response with a link to a google search. Obviously there’s many different ways to accomplish this, I wanted to know from the manufacturer what their suggested method was. I can only hope their product is better than their customer service. I’ve read mixed things on the wiring, some saying they’ve rewired and others saying that have not. Is there a definitive answer on this? I think the one I have is fine, but I just decided to go with Walbro. I can definitely hear it, so I might put in some sound deadening at some point, but happy that it does what it's supposed to do. I'll send the TRE to you if you'd like.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1644_2):
Originally posted by reelizmpro 2. Use a hose sized in between the outlet and inlet like rogue described. If the inlet is 10mm and outlet is 8mm...use a 9mm hose with clamps. Make sure to use submersible fuel hose. Exactly what I did. Submersible-rated Gates 27097 (3/8" ID) was what worked for my application, going from memory but believe I have an Aeromotive pump in mine.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1644_5):
For my TRE 255 (I think mine is a 255 but I don't remember?) I just used the hose that came in the kit. Had to cut the bottom of the bracket and I believe I used the hose that came with the pump. I do not think highly of TRE. I have lost all reasoning behind why I think this, but I believe TRE branded products are branded chinese parts. The best evidence I have right now is their TRE branded "bosch-style" and "seimens-style" injectors. I bought a TI/Walbro pump to replace mine, but found that my fuel tank was full to the brim, so I didn't end up swapping it and can't comment on if it looks "real" or "fake". The TRE has been in since 2016, so if they are knockoff walbros, they seem to at least work well.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1644_6):
Originally posted by digger Are these more reliable than genuine Walbro's? I think if they are they are, but sometimes they're not. (i,e. none of us can really say for sure). In my case, the TRE behaved oddly in my S52 swap, but I'm not 100% sure it was the pump. My problem with TRE was this: When I got the pump and gave it to my shop, they said it made the pump assembly too tall. I reached out to TRE with that comment and asked if they had wiring and installation instructions. Their answer was: "Tons of install information available online, google search" and a link. My response was: "This? E30 255lph Fuel Pump Installation https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=e30+255lph+fuel+pump+installation For those who think it's easier to annoy you than to Google 'E30 255lph fuel pump installation' themselves. ;) I've already forwarded some of the info - I'm asking if you've heard of early-E30 folks and have any specific info you can pass along?" (click that link to get the joke) Their reply was: "We know we sell tons of pumps for those and it is no problem to install if you follow directions found online. Do not miss redoing all wiring with a "hot wire kit". After that exchange, when the car had additional running issues I just gave up on TRE and just got a Walbro, and decided to put in a new FPR and upgraded injectors since it was all original to the motor. Since then it's been running awesome. I guess my point is I don't know what the advantage is for TRE over Walbro, and their customer service was lacking.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1644_7):
I asked TRE for instructions and got a similar response with a link to a google search. Obviously there’s many different ways to accomplish this, I wanted to know from the manufacturer what their suggested method was. I can only hope their product is better than their customer service. I’ve read mixed things on the wiring, some saying they’ve rewired and others saying that have not. Is there a definitive answer on this?

ANSWER 8 (id: 1644_8):
I can't speak for the dual pump setup, but I'd trust Panici's info in the other thread. For the single pump setup, the stock wiring is sufficient to a point. I think beyond a 255 - or if you absolutely need to squeeze every little bit of flow out of the 255 - a relay setup with larger gauge wire begins to be worth it.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1644_9):
People were complaining about Walbro's being too loud and going bad. However, this may or may not be the case since there are fake Walbro's out there. Either way, this helped TRE in my opinion because they were reliable, comparably priced, have lower amperage draw and supposedly, they aren't as loud as Walbro. WIring depends on the current draw of the pump. A Walbro 255lph draws 8-12A (16A Max) TRE 255lph draws 7-10A (16A Max). Late model E30 fuel pump wiring at it's smallest point is 1.5mm sq. or 15-16 awg which is good for 15-18A so one could upgrade the fuse to 15A and call it a day. A 255lph pump is good for 500HP+ so unless you need every last bit of that 255lph...you don't have to upgrade the wiring. People will typically recommend it anyway to be on the safe side and to make sure your engine isn't getting fuel starved but if you're well under 500HP, I wouldn't worry about it.