QUESTION ID: 2943

QUESTION:
I was thinking of purchasing this rhd touring off eBay but then realized theres a major price discrepancy in rhd and lhd cars. It shocked me that I was only able to find one rhd touring on bring a trailer. I know this is probably a noob question but any insight would be appreciated. more specifically what do you think this car would be worth painted? Pardon Our Interruption... https://www.ebay.com/itm/1991-BMW-3-Series/263440705093?ssPageName=STRK%3AMEBIDX%3AIT&_trksid=p2055359.m2763.l2648

ANSWER 1 (id: 2943_0):
Probably exactly the same as the BIN price, maybe less considering the probable unaddressed rust. RHD tourings typically sit 3k below LHD cars if the condition is the same. There are also plenty of tourings stateside now, which has dramatically reduced their prices, sometimes to less than the price of a USDM sedan.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2943_1):
Nobody wants a RHD E30 - not even people from a RHD country. I'd pass unless you want to deal with the mess BMW made converting a car engineered 100% for LHD to RHD.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2943_11):
Originally posted by nando Nobody wants a RHD E30 - not even people from a RHD country. I'd pass unless you want to deal with the mess BMW made converting a car engineered 100% for LHD to RHD. This sounds highly exadurated and sensationalized. Rhd car in a country that is predominantly lhd sounds rediculous. But to say that those in a rhd country dont want rhd cars? Eh? The only downside of a rhd e30 is the oddball brake pedal linkage. But its better than sitting on the wrong side of the car;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 2943_12):
Well, I didn't mean it literally - obviously, if you want an E30 in a RHD country, it's what you have to buy. But there's no reason to want one here. :p

ANSWER 5 (id: 2943_13):
Originally posted by djjerme To be fair - it's been cheaper for me to ship stuff at times from the UK/Germany/Australia than it is from across the US (thanks Amazon?) Same here. I had a crack free dash shipped to my door from the UK. Cost me $450 total

ANSWER 6 (id: 2943_2):
I agree with what’s posted above. Rogue has had a touring or two so he probably has his finger on the market pulse as well as anyone. I think rhd cars are perhaps worth even less than the 3k below that he mentions. I can tell you one thing for sure. They are really hard to sell. Keep in mind that if you do buy this one or another, you are going to be stuck with it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2943_3):
...but then again. It will stick out at Cars and Coffee. There was someone who was looking for a RHD touring because he had a medical issue that limited his right arm movement, and he had been considering trying to convert an E30 to RHD. So there is some instances where it could make sense.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2943_4):
Ive had 2 RHD tourings and that one in my opinion is priced a little to high. I think the fiberglass Mtech kit bring the value down a little and of course the paint job doesn't help either. Also it has a small case diff in it. Should have a med case diff. If you could get it for $6k take off the Mtech kit and do a proper paint job along with other cosmetic/mechanical things it should be worth $10k but you will have that into it or more. I don't see why LHD are worth more over RHD. Yea I get all the inconveniences that come along with it but most likely its not an everyday car so why not

ANSWER 9 (id: 2943_5):
Originally posted by Shftr8 I don't see why LHD are worth more over RHD It's very simple. One of the primary draws of the E30 is the fact that they're a great platform for modification, RHD complicates it. That along with a complete lack of advantages other than "it's unusual and attracts attention" narrows the buyer pool and makes the car harder to sell and less valuable. You want to get rid of the stock truck steering in your E30? Not a problem, go get any E46 rack at the junkyard, if you're lucky you might even find a Z3 rack like I did. For less than $100 and not much time spent you've made a great improvement in how the car feels to drive. RHD? You get to enjoy sourcing a rack and that probably means importing from the UK, Japan or Australia. Want to turbo your M20? No big deal, quality manifolds are available for a reasonable price and the exhaust is easy to route - 3" downpipe, no problem. RHD? Due to minuscule sales volume nobody will be making a production run of RHD turbo manifolds in the US, so you're going to be paying for a one-off or overseas shipping, and you have to deal with the steering column when routing the downpipe. All swaps are made more difficult too since you have to source or make RHD exhaust manifolds or headers.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2943_6):
Originally posted by varg It's very simple. One of the primary draws of the E30 is the fact that they're a great platform for modification, RHD complicates it. For example - you want to get rid of the stock truck steering in your E30? Not a problem, go get any E46 rack at the junkyard, if you're lucky you might even find a Z3 rack like I did. For less than $100 you easily make an immense improvement in how the car feels to drive. RHD? Enjoy sourcing and importing a rack from the UK, Japan or Australia. Want to turbo your M20? No big deal, quality manifolds are available for a reasonable price and the exhaust is easy to route - 3" downpipe, no problem. RHD? Due to minuscule sales volume nobody will be making a production run of RHD turbo manifolds in the US so you're going to be paying for a custom one or overseas shipping, and you have to deal with the steering column when routing the downpipe. All swaps are made more difficult too since you have to source or make RHD exhaust manifolds or headers. I see your point but that may not be the OP intentions. Sourcing parts from across the pond are not overly hard. Yes they may be more expensive but I have sourced many RHD parts for mine including a rack. Swaps are not impossible either. Mine:

ANSWER 11 (id: 2943_7):
Who said impossible? Read my post. Makes common mods harder and more expensive. Cost vs benefit, narrow buyer pool, lower price. Cut and dry. As stated, the explanation for the price difference is very simple.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2943_9):
Originally posted by djjerme ...but then again. It will stick out at Cars and Coffee. There was someone who was looking for a RHD touring because he had a medical issue that limited his right arm movement, and he had been considering trying to convert an E30 to RHD. So there is some instances where it could make sense. like at a atm, or drivethru, or mail box drop