QUESTION ID: 2133

QUESTION:
Has anyone had this issue where you turn the key and you here the starter spinning but not engaging with the flywheel? I always thought this was my starter going bad. I've been ignoring it because for the most part the car starts most of the time. The other day I parked it at a store for maybe 30 mins. Came out and the car would not start. I can hear the starter spinning but not engaging. I've experience this before and most of the time I either pop the clutch or it will start after a bit of sitting. The other day I was reading something about jumping pins 11 and 14 and the starter should start if it's good. So that's what I did. The car started beautifully. So my real question is there something I should check in the ignition? What would cause this? There is an aftermarket alarm that I do not use, but it is still wired in. It was installed by the previous owner 8 years ago.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2133_1):
Did you happen to swap your car from auto to manual following one of the various online "wiring guides" to bypass the starter relay? If so, when I did my swap I had weird hot starting issues for years until I replaced the black yellow wire between the steering column and starter motor (replicating how the wiring is in a factory manual car). Most of the online guides are ridiculously complicated and can cause issues with the unloader relay circuit as I found. It's in my member's rides thread here: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...93#post6533893

ANSWER 2 (id: 2133_10):
If the car starts easy by a bump switch, or jumping the starter solenoid, it's probably the ignition switch. The orange plastic degrades and allows the contacts to open. I had an s52 swapped car in the shop about 15yr ago. Bad switch, no e-brake, so it was in 1st. Shop employee was in the car and bumped the key with his arm. The car didn't start, but the starter drove it into another e30, and smashed both plastic bumpers. Fortunately, back then, many hoarders had stacks of bumpers due to "cash for clunkers" Now engine parts are scarce.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2133_11):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird If the car starts easy by a bump switch, or jumping the starter solenoid, it's probably the ignition switch. The orange plastic degrades and allows the contacts to open. I had an s52 swapped car in the shop about 15yr ago. Bad switch, no e-brake, so it was in 1st. Shop employee was in the car and bumped the key with his arm. The car didn't start, but the starter drove it into another e30, and smashed both plastic bumpers. Fortunately, back then, many hoarders had stacks of bumpers due to "cash for clunkers" Now engine parts are scarce. Appreciate the info. That's what I believe is the culprit. Something in the ignition. Yeah parts are getting harder and harder to find. Hopefully someone will start reproducing these parts.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2133_12):
Could well be the switch - the ignition switch is also a known weak spot on e30s. Fortunately you can still get them new if you can’t find a decent used one: https://www.schmiedmann.com/en/produ...1-32-1-374-868 Trying replacing the wire between the steering column and starter first as it’s the cheap option

ANSWER 5 (id: 2133_2):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Did you happen to swap your car from auto to manual following one of the various online "wiring guides" to bypass the starter relay? If so, when I did my swap I had weird hot starting issues for years until I replaced the black yellow wire between the steering column and starter motor (replicating how the wiring is in a factory manual car). Most of the online guides are ridiculously complicated and can cause issues with the unloader relay circuit as I found. It's in my member's rides thread here: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...93#post6533893 Awesome thank you so much. I will look into this.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2133_3):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Did you happen to swap your car from auto to manual following one of the various online "wiring guides" to bypass the starter relay? What is up with all of these guides anyways? All the E30s are wired as manuals at the factory, and you can literally remove the add-on Auto trans harness. E30 5-Speed Swap - Wiring https://web.archive.org/web/20170616131903/https://www.genuinebimmer.com/e30-5-speed-swap---wiring.html Genuine Bimmer - BMW E30 5-Speed Swap - Wiring https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-technical-forums/e30-faq-and-diy/84824-5-speed-swap-wiring-plug-play-w-cruise-control

ANSWER 7 (id: 2133_4):
Indeed - the starter relay circuit for the automatic is easy to remove once you know how, but if you hack up the wiring following one of the “guides" you can run into weird problems (as I did), and some people then put forward some equally weird ’solutions’ too My favourite would have to be someone claiming they had filed the teeth on the ring gear and starter bendix to sort the issue on an M50 swapped e30. Since I replaced the starter wire in my car, I’ve never had a single starting problem since.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2133_5):
The starter bendix sounds like its not functioning. If your starter is spinning, it is getting power so the start circuit is fine. I would pull the starter and replace it. You could also try hitting the starter with a hammer (not hard enough to dent it, just firm taps), but its almost impossible to get to... on that note, buy a good reman or new starter, not a used one. They are not fun to replace.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2133_6):
Originally posted by jbontke The starter bendix sounds like its not functioning. If your starter is spinning, it is getting power so the start circuit is fine. I would pull the starter and replace it. You could also try hitting the starter with a hammer (not hard enough to dent it, just firm taps), but its almost impossible to get to... on that note, buy a good reman or new starter, not a used one. They are not fun to replace. Pin 11 and 14 will start the car every time. No hesitation. My car used to be auto as well.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2133_7):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Pin 11 and 14 will start the car every time. No hesitation. My car used to be auto as well. So you are saying that jumping pin 11 and 14 in some connector causes the car to start otherwise all you hear is the starter whirring?

ANSWER 11 (id: 2133_8):
Originally posted by Panici All the E30s are wired as manuals at the factory, and you can literally remove the add-on Auto trans harness. Thank you for this lol, I've looked at my 4dr car a few times realizing it was originally an auto that someone converted to manual with a bunch of twisting wires together. This gives me hope that I can just unplug the jank.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2133_9):
Originally posted by jbontke So you are saying that jumping pin 11 and 14 in some connector causes the car to start otherwise all you hear is the starter whirring? I'm saying after hearing what lukeADE335i talked about. I believe my issue is somewhere in the wiring for ignition. I believe the volts that are being drawn to turn the starter are not always sufficient for it to engage the flywheel. But when you jump pin 11 and 14 it bypasses the ignition and sends power to the starter. I do not believe my starter is bad. I've also replaced just about every fuse and relay, along with all sensors. All the grounds are brand new as well. The battery isn't old and the alternator is also brand new. I will eventually replace the starter, but I do not believe that will solve my current issue completely.