QUESTION ID: 1729

QUESTION:
In lieu of professional counseling, I’m reaching out to the e30 community. I’m interested in everyone’s opinion and I suspect they will be biased considering where I’m posting this. I have a 1986 325es with a supercharged S52. It makes 420hp to the wheels. It’s red and it’s fast. My dad bought this car brand new in 1986 and gave it to me in high school in the late 90s. I also have a 1989 325i with a stock S52 that I’ve had since 2011. I use this car exclusively HPDEs. All interior has been removed except for seats, harness and dash. Because of the history I have with the eta, I thought I would keep it forever. However, lately, I’m seriously considering selling it. And if I sold the eta, I would sell the other car so that I could buy a E9X M3 or F87 M2. I’ve seen M2s and M3s in the low to mid 20s, which is a good price for me, since I think I could $30K out of both cars. Whatever I buy, I plan to use primarily on the track for HPDEs. I have little interest “streetability.” My interests have changed over the past few years and my desire to keep these cars in good running condition is dwindling. I’m really itching to get into a modern track car. What do you guys think?​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1729_0):
New here, but my own opinion is we evolve, we change, so do our interests. Life is too short to be trying the same soup all the time, so change it up. For instance, I am looking to get INTO an E30, which is why i am here. I've had E36s, B5 Audi's, and then a long stint in offroading vehicles. Don't regret any of it. But here i am. Unless you have FU money, which you don't, I say sell the E30 and get into your new interest. Just look back in nostalgia and not regret.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1729_1):
Keep them! You might not regret it now, but could later. I bought and sold my car back before, still own it. I don't think i'll get rid of it unless I r3v it. Like I could've bought a nicer shell for the money, but it wasn't mine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1729_11):
Just to clarify something. I'm not desperate or super itching to get a new track car and therefore, I need to sell the red car. My desire to keep the red car in good-running condition is fading, therefore, IF I sell it, I'll have a bunch of money to (1) buy a newer toy, (2) "invest" the money into my existing track car or (3) Pay down some debt. I agree with some of the comments about new cars being numb and less friendly to shade tree mechanics. Which is why I bought the Bronzit car. It's fun to drive on the track, easy to work on and very affordable. If there was someone in my family that liked the car as much as I do and was capable of maintaining it, I'd just give it to them. This is really not about the money. If I purchased another car, I'd be looking for something around 350 - 450 hp and DCT. I like how DCTs perform and I'm tired of missed shifts and money shifts. I'd like to stick with BMW since I still like BMWs and it's all I've ever known, but I am willing to consider other brands I would consider Boxster and Cayman, but like the price point of BMW's better. My dad bought a 2020-someting Boxster a couple of months ago, but he's already itching to sell it to buy a new M2, M3 or M4. I definitely like the way the car handles.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1729_12):
Can you buddy up at the track and drive some other cars? What shifter and engine / motor mounts are you using? Flappy paddle is fun for a little bit, but proper manual box never gets old.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1729_13):
Originally posted by moatilliatta What shifter and engine / motor mounts are you using? Flappy paddle is fun for a little bit, but proper manual box never gets old.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1729_2):
It is highly unlikely that you would ever be able to get either car back if you sold them, and even if you did, it's highly likely that the new owner would make some new modifications. So you may be able to purchase the VIN again, but it won't be the same car as before. It sounds like the sedan is more or less disposable for you. That could be an easy sell for a few thousand. If the coupe hold sentimental value for you, as "always in the family" or a happy reminder of your dad, I would hold on to it. Are you stuck on an e9x M3 (with its price and maintenance requirements) or an F87M2? Both would be a blast and driving dynamics would be better than the e30, but power output would be equivalent to the coupe. If you're looking for a newer track car, why not look at an FRS/86/BRZ? Why not a miata, boxter, or z3? Then again, if you're just tired of having an e30 around, maybe it is time to move on to something else.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1729_3):
I think its good to have a variety of experiences, but I also dont have any cars with sentimental connections, so Im not sure selling the ES is a good idea. Is the sedan fully tracked out? Could it be sold sans motor for a Spec 3 spec car needing an M20? If so, you might be want to consider selling that as a roller, selling the supercharged S52 setup and then keeping the ES with just the NA S52. A little work but it could get you into something newer and keep the special car.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1729_4):
I am curious genuinely. What is the drive behind wanting a newer track toy? I know I'll get ripped to shreds for saying/admitting this, but I drove a heavily modified twin turbo Z06 C5 Corvette back-to-back with my buddies stripped e30 with a mild 2.7 stroker, cage and suspension/chassis work. While it was on a shorter track (mostly below 100mph) I can confidently say I had more fun in the e30. This was extremely eye opening to me and shifted my feelings of what I want in a car. No doubt the z06 was faster, on that day not a single car passed me or stayed with me while driving it and I'm just an okay driver. With the e30 I definitely let a few faster cars pass, but I couldn't believe how much fun I was having.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1729_5):
Using E39s and E46s as semi- disposable commuters, I think you'd absolutely hate how impossible it is to keep a more modern BMW running yourself. (now, an E46M3 as a track car, well, that might just be OK...) If you don't mind taking it in for service whenever something minor misbehaves, sure, you'll be ok. But after the 3rd time BMW can't fix it, it gets old. Especially after they're replaced both turbos, the DME, and the ABS module, at your expense. t too independent for the BMW Corporate lifestyle.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1729_6):
whenever i switch cars up i like to be able to afford the new without it being contingent on selling the old one. the extra budget always gets used on the new car.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1729_7):
I've been DD the the e93 328i lately (all this year) and only one of the e30s have gotten maybe a one or two weekend drives. Wanting to also exit the e30 life as I have three other interesting cars(Elan, 912, 4C) that I need to drive. Sadly, I have to hold on to the e30s until the nephews and nieces can appreciate a classic e30 before I pass them on. if I was in your shoes, I would hold the eta and find a way to incorporate the newer car into my life.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1729_8):
I'd be keeping that 325es regardless, it looks like it's in great shape! Save for something newer and sell the track car if that's really the direction you want to go. Although personally, newer cars feel numb to me. For fun track use I'd want something older, even if it's objectively slower (I'm no race car driver). If you're having trouble with maintenance on something old, GET READY for some "fun" maintaining a newer car yourself. They aren't built to last 10+ years any more. If you aren't the first owner under warranty, then good luck. FWIW all the cars in my small fleet are older then 25 years old now, and ease of maintenance is one of the reasons why.