QUESTION ID: 2685

QUESTION:
So it seems the new Supra is ugly and also powered by a BMW I6 Thoughts? https://www.motortrend.com/cars/toyota/supra/2020/2020-toyota-supra-first-look-review/?sm_id=organic_fb_social_MT_190114_sf205919274

ANSWER 1 (id: 2685_1):
Am I mistaken or is the chassis also based on the Z4? Which would mean BMW engine, trans, and also chassis... basically a BMW modified by Toyota. I think they messed up. The previous Supra was a special car, and a large part of that was its legendary powerplant. And this one is powered by a ... BMW. IMO it's not a Supra. It could be a good car but they need to call it something else. I'd have to agree with what was said in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gNuUzUoeNec As far as looks, in the photo in post #1, the proportions of it are kinda funky. Looks like it really, really needs a drop... to start with.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2685_11):
Originally posted by kyleconstantine im pretty sure the z4 will only be a convertible. if you want a coupe its gotta be the supra. there is a feature on them in the latest c/d. that'd be a shame, i still wish for a Z4 coupé later on.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2685_2):
it's ugly and has a BMW engine? So it's basically like any other BMW? :p I wonder how modern BMWs unreliability plays into this all. Anyway, IDGAF, I'm never going to buy either one.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2685_3):
Part of me wants to echo the IDGAF, but I think it's at least nice that companies still believe there are customers for sporty coupes, even if they platform share to lower costs.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2685_4):
All of the AE86 people hated the new GT86 (and it has a subaru engine) . And all of the supra people are going to hate the new supra (and it has a bmw engine). But the reality is the GT86 is a good car in its own right, and i suspect the supra will also be a good car in its own right too. Looks are obviously subjective. I personally don't really like the look of the JZA80 supra, much prefer the JZA70. But then everyone seems to froth over the JZA80 . This new one certainly has JZA80 cues in it. But like most new cars there is a alot going on, bordering on too much. Lots of lines everywhere. Just got to look at the new civic and you can tell all the car companies are getting the work experience kid go nuts with the ruler. I love all the internet comments saying "why didn't they put a 2JZ engine in it". I mean c'mon its 30yrs in the future, if you thought they were going to use a 2jz you've seriously got no idea how the world works.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2685_5):
I found it interesting that the z4 will have more power. 20ish hp and tq and they couldn't have gotten it for the Supra. I like it and obviously has growing pains at first. Over time people tend to just to enjoy it once modified and good photos are out.. I do have a feeling it will be expensive to fix just like a BMW lol. It's basically a Z4 coupe in my eyes

ANSWER 7 (id: 2685_7):
Originally posted by fight4life28 I found it interesting that the z4 will have more power. 20ish hp and tq and they couldn't have gotten it for the Supra. I like it and obviously has growing pains at first. Over time people tend to just to enjoy it once modified and good photos are out.. I do have a feeling it will be expensive to fix just like a BMW lol. It's basically a Z4 coupe in my eyes I think it was something of a "company policy thing", like "you get our engine but it has to have less power than ours does". I would bet on it that it's really only software and that you'll have a Supra piggyback ECU with the BMW map/power and/or easy 400hp aftermarket solutions for it. It looks funny though, but even the Z4 does. I'm stoked to see what the Z4 Coupé looks like compared to the supra. And i wonder how long it takes until BMW release it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2685_9):
Originally posted by Ludwig I'm stoked to see what the Z4 Coupé looks like compared to the supra. And i wonder how long it takes until BMW release it. im pretty sure the z4 will only be a convertible. if you want a coupe its gotta be the supra. there is a feature on them in the latest c/d.