QUESTION ID: 3442

QUESTION:
Hi all, Since I don't have a garage I decided to built a shop out of a temp shelter on a grassy area next to my house and used some reclaimed cedar boards from my fence supported by 2x4 as a floor. I added some 2.5" thick pavers where the car is jacked up and it has been perfect for the suspension work, removing the head plus other small type of work. However, my rod bearings need to be replaced and I'm leaning towards removing the engine block so that I can take it to a machine shop. Assuming that I remove the head, front end of the car and borrow an engine hoist, do you guys think is a good idea to use the engine hoist to remove the short block on the wooden floor. Will it support it? all there is under the cedar boards is 2x4 studs and grass. Or should I go getto style and have a couple of friends help me remove the block. Feel free to share all you want. I really need some experiences/thoughts. Here are some pics of my set-up. https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7FDp4fDJpDOeUl3dUFuQ2VBTUE https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7FDp4fDJpDOVXdZcy1jTE5LM00 https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7FDp4fDJpDOQm5xLTR4dlFkdUk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3442_2):
Originally posted by djjerme Just drop the front subframe. It's hella easy, and less stress on the floor.. Yeah, I've done that already. There is nothing but the engine being held by a support bar. https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7FDp4fDJpDOd3JNX2d2MHNPTkU I took out the bearings and considered measure the crank shaft and replaced just the rod bearings. I'm just amazed at how even they have been worn for the past 30 years. The engine is stock all over. However, I want to see first if I can do a machine shop job while I'm there. https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7FDp4fDJpDOVXIxaFEtamthYjQ

ANSWER 2 (id: 3442_5):
I think you would need a flat sheet of wood over the top of the pavers to stop the wheels of the hoist pushing to slats sideways and getting stuck. You just want to be able to slide the hoist around. Its that or lift the engine straight up without the box and push the car backwards out of the way

ANSWER 3 (id: 3442_6):
Originally posted by bangn ... push the car backwards out of the way This is a very interesting option. I barely have over 4 feet of area infront of the car. I'm also on board with all sugestions about adding some plywood or something to strengthen and smooth out the floor. Thanks everyone for your suggestions.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3442_7):
First, freaking rad temp shelter! Second, more plywood. Reinstall subframe to engine. Remove subframe. Get friends to lift subframeless car in the air and back it up. The hoist won't roll for shit in grass. As you know. The other option is to tear up the grass and tamp down the dirt and continue installing pavers and make an actual floor that the hoist will roll on.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3442_8):
I agree a couple of sheets of good ply wood NOT OSB should be more than enough to spread the load out enough so your current support system should handle the load. Hoist will roll fine on 5/8 ply