QUESTION ID: 2825

QUESTION:
So I took my 1990 325i to my local dealer today, from whom I bought new tires and basketweave wheels a few months ago to have the tires rebalanced as there was slight vibration in the steering wheel (they fixed it for free). While there, I asked the service advisor to give me a quote for replacing the rear trailing arm, differential mount and subframe bushings. They declined, saying they don't have anyone who knows how to work on E30s, and they don't have any of the special tools to press out/in the bushings. I think i'll do it myself and find a machine shop to press the bushings.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2825_1):
I'm not surprised. I work at a dealer and we need a forman to sign off on the car BEFORE its dropped off for service if its a 1997 or older. I'd guess at least 85% of dealers don't even have mechanics working at that dealership who saw e30's under warranty back in the 80's. My point is an independent shop who see's e30's on a weekly basis would be a better choice for having your car worked on vs a dealer mechanic who's never worked on a e30 before. Thankfully my shop forman and a few other guys I work with did see e30's under warranty and are familiar with them but that's very rare for dealer guys to stick around that long. Most dealers are a joke.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2825_10):
Being friends with a handful of guys who own(ed) or manage(d) independent shops, many times jobs are intentionally quoted high because they just don't want to do the work. Case in point: BMW V8 timing chain guides.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2825_11):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Not to mention all the old guys who worked on these cars new are fading away too.. Most younger guys probably don't care about it. SAVE THE OLD GUYS! Accurate. We're slowly running out of people who worked with these when they were new, dealer or independent. Not saying that there aren't current techs out there that can work on one, they are just few and far between. I'd DIY it. If nothing else, you'll get the satisfaction of doing it yourself.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2825_12):
Originally posted by agent Being friends with a handful of guys who own(ed) or manage(d) independent shops, many times jobs are intentionally quoted high because they just don't want to do the work. Case in point: BMW V8 timing chain guides. I've found this to be the truth. Sure, the shop can diagnose and fix rough running issues for your '02, but that's going to take a lot of time from a very experienced tech with no guarantee the tech gets it right (or all of the problems) the first time. So they'll charge enough to make it worth the hassle. On the other hand, oh your e46 isn't running right? Computer says misfire on Cyl 1. Swap the coil to Cyl 3. If the miss moves, its the coil. If not, throw a set of plugs at it and call it a day. (Probably sell coils too, because, why not.)

ANSWER 5 (id: 2825_13):
Any time I drive my car up to the dealer it’s just to pick up parts I’ve ordered. I’m mostly ignored but there’s always one guy that asks if I would sell my car, which makes me smile and run home and drench the thing with 303.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2825_2):
Very common, even my local dealer will turn most of those away. Occasionally I do see an E34 or E36 in there but its typically for long time owners who wish to continue to use the dealer for maintenance. Keep in mind most dealer techs have never touched the older cars

ANSWER 7 (id: 2825_4):
Only reason I still go to the dealer is the F15 is under warranty and still gets free maintenance, the other reason is for parts when I need in a pinch. I stopped bringing my E93 M3 to the dealer once the warranty ran. Basically, do all the work myself, or independent if its above my pay grade. Pulling into the dealer the only E46 I see even these days are just the M3's. I dont know if I have ever seen an E30 there.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2825_6):
keep in mind they mostly work on soccer-mom cars these days - BMW seems hell bent on making the German version of the Camry. I would never willingly take a car there that wasn't under warranty/recall. The techs are probably competent enough to follow computer instructions on a modern car, but you'll pay out the nose for likely inferior service on something like an E30. I just had my E90 in for recalls. They weren't rude (they complimented the condition of my 12 year old car, actually), but it was obvious they weren't going to make any money off me being there. I asked about getting my cabin filter replaced while i was there, and it would have been $120 with labor. it takes like 5 minutes to DIY...

ANSWER 9 (id: 2825_9):
Originally posted by nando keep in mind they mostly work on soccer-mom cars these days - BMW seems hell bent on making the German version of the Camry. I would never willingly take a car there that wasn't under warranty/recall. The techs are probably competent enough to follow computer instructions on a modern car, but you'll pay out the nose for likely inferior service on something like an E30. I just had my E90 in for recalls. They weren't rude (they complimented the condition of my 12 year old car, actually), but it was obvious they weren't going to make any money off me being there. I asked about getting my cabin filter replaced while i was there, and it would have been $120 with labor. it takes like 5 minutes to DIY... The labor rates they apply to jobs are amazing. We brought the X5 in for service and my wife asked about removing the center console phone cradle (we didnt have the insert it was just prewired with a huge cradle taking up half the space in the center console), they quoted $750!!! It took me 10 minutes to removed the cradle and $20 new OEM plastic cover to cover the wiring.