QUESTION ID: 281

QUESTION:
whenever i turn the steering wheel like in a tight space situation (or just low speeds i guess) with lots of throwing the steering wheel back and forth, it knocks very noticeably. like every revolution or so it does....is this that big nut on the steering column or something else?

ANSWER 1 (id: 281_0):
Could be a loose ball joint or something shifting in the suspension when you turn the wheels. You can check the steering wheel nut, but thats probably not the problem. Perhaps you should also check the rubber coupling on the steering shaft in between the steering rack and the firewall. Thats all i can think of.

ANSWER 2 (id: 281_12):
Originally posted by Digitalwave Originally posted by LennysEleven Could a worn out Guibo cause loose steering? Sorry if this is OT No, the guibo is on the drive shaft, its not even closely related to the steering. l. Yes, there is a guibo on the driveshaft. There is also one at the steering joint above the steering rack. It wears over time and can cause things like steering clanks and sloppiness. :idea:

ANSWER 3 (id: 281_5):
Do you have the stock steering wheel? If not, did you remove that white peg in the steering column? My MTech1 wheel did the same thing when I replaced the airbag wheel with it. I pulled that sucker off and everything works fine now.

ANSWER 4 (id: 281_7):
Originally posted by rwdrift Do you have the stock steering wheel? If not, did you remove that white peg in the steering column? My MTech1 wheel did the same thing when I replaced the airbag wheel with it. I pulled that sucker off and everything works fine now. Shit, same here... anyone know what that little plug was for? Someone told me it was airbag related.

ANSWER 5 (id: 281_8):
Originally posted by LennysEleven Could a worn out Guibo cause loose steering? Sorry if this is OT No, the guibo is on the drive shaft, its not even closely related to the steering. Matt, it holds the ring that controls airbag deployement. You have to take it out when switching to a non-airbag wheel.

ANSWER 6 (id: 281_9):
Originally posted by Digitalwave Originally posted by LennysEleven Could a worn out Guibo cause loose steering? Sorry if this is OT No, the guibo is on the drive shaft, its not even closely related to the steering. Matt, it holds the ring that controls airbag deployement. You have to take it out when switching to a non-airbag wheel. Ahh, thanks.