QUESTION ID: 2183

QUESTION:
Like 370mm M tech steering wheels rather than 385? Or smoked smileys with HID? Smoked front turn signal lenses? Or sport seats? nvm sport seats are cool. Heated windscreen nozzles? Heated side mirrors? Heated door locks? That cool metal fuel hose cover in the rear right wheel arch? The gray lining cover on the trunk lid around the tool box? BMW Motorsport door handles? Startec taillights? I can't tell you the number of times I've been rear ended, and my first thought was my expensive taillights. Or braided steel brake hoses? If we're buying braided steel brake hoses does that mean we know that rubber brake hoses, which btw BMW and car manufacturers have standardized and used on their cars today, are worse? Heck, how about subframe or trailing arm reinforcements? Do people keep bending or cracking their subframes or trailing arms for reasons other than rust or giant potholes? It's just that I'm kinda thinking about my project, and have written down a list of stuff that I like, or think I need, when in reality I have no clue how I'm gonna make it down this list. Or even need it at all. I have had great times with my car as we all have, and I don't know if these parts and cool mods and all make me enjoy the car more or make me more nervous about parking it outside. Overall I'm kinda feeling like I'm not sure I'm a victim of good marketing, or really really want this sporty awesome fast cool little car for a good time. While I've had good times, and I hope to have a lot more, I'm kind of debating if more mods are actually going to equate to more good times or more anxiety. It also doesn't help that I was thinking about Fight Club earlier, but I'm sure that's unrelated. Totally. I'm probably gonna keep going on that stupid list still, dammit.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2183_0):
You're showing the signs of a directionless project. Maybe I'm wrong, but you come across as the "I don't know exactly what I want, so I want the best of everything shot-gun approach". On my 2002 restoration .... I spent about 2 months daydreaming and refining exactly what I wanted the car to be. No budget considerations, no restraints etc. It was a ton of fun. From there I refined it to a cohesive image of my dream car.... no aspect left out. With that image in mind I then wrote down all the parts needed (several hadn't been invented yet) and a general game plan of how to make it happen (think of an engineering CDR [critical design review]). Then the past several years has just been following that initial plan. Sure, the hardest thing has been telling myself NO when every new doodad comes out, but it's easier when I remember it doesn't align with that original outline. When the car is finally drivable this summer, I might be a little nervous about driving it (especially looking at how stupid prices have become).... but then I'll refer back to that initial goal of what I wanted the car to be (a fun car to carve canyons with and to take my sons on adventures with) .... and the apprehensiveness surrounding a couple rock chips/dings will dissipate.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2183_1):
Who is defining "the cool one" here? Can't relate. I just want to go fast, and when I restore it I want it to look good and be "my way" but that's about it. Buy what you want.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2183_11):
Originally posted by moatilliatta I hope to hoard one of every spare for my car! Slowly accumulating the one off stuff. Hey if you uh, ever need someone to keep a look out for all the cool stuff, call me :)

ANSWER 4 (id: 2183_12):
maybe it stems from some childhood events/trauma? That, or you've got a wallet urging for a beating ;). LOL, in all seriousness, plan your use and then the goals for the car and take it from there.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2183_2):
Sometimes I feel this way. Mostly about engine parts/driveline parts. But I have a vision for my car and I stick with it. I used to sit down and on paper write out my dream build. This helps that way you can play Devil's Advocate with yourself.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2183_4):
Never have understood the obsession with 370mm m-tech steering wheels - I have the 385mm m-tech 2 and it is a nice comfy wheel. I don’t have subframe reinforcements at either end, and have not had any issues with cracking even with M30 power & weight. So no - never have felt a strong urge to have the “cool stuff” just built the car how I wanted it, and replaced things as they broke with what I could find or afford at the time. If I could go back in time I definitely would have bought the 318is for $4k that I had a deposit on and changed my mind a few years ago. Was fully optioned with factory M-Tech 2 kit, plaid uberkaro interior, sports seats and 4.10 LSD.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2183_5):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Never have understood the obsession with 370mm m-tech steering wheels - I have the 385mm m-tech 2 and it is a nice comfy wheel. I don’t have subframe reinforcements at either end, and have not had any issues with cracking even with M30 power & weight. So no - never have felt a strong urge to have the “cool stuff” just built the car how I wanted it, and replaced things as they broke with what I could find or afford at the time. If I could go back in time I definitely would have bought the 318is for $4k that I had a deposit on and changed my mind a few years ago. Was fully optioned with factory M-Tech 2 kit, plaid uberkaro interior, sports seats and 4.10 LSD. I did do the front subframe reinforcement for peace of mind. I like to always get rid of a weakness(no matter how likely or unlikely).

ANSWER 8 (id: 2183_6):
I suspect that it’s urethane / solid engine mounts that do the damage to the front subframe more than power output by transmitting engine vibrations through the crossmember - and maybe rust? I’ve always run rubber engine mounts, and we don’t have salted roads down here so rust isn’t much of a problem. The reinforcement is such a cheap mod, that if you’re worried it’s worthwhile doing.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2183_7):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i If I could go back in time I definitely would have bought the 318is for $4k that I had a deposit on and changed my mind a few years ago. Was fully optioned with factory M-Tech 2 kit, plaid uberkaro interior, sports seats and 4.10 LSD. So the "coolest mod" for your 325(or m30 swapped e30) is to get a 318is. Why do I want a Dino GT4?

ANSWER 10 (id: 2183_8):
Lol... sort of. The prices of the 318is and 325is (particularly with M-Tech 2 kits) have gone nuts down here because we never got the M3. As a driver I’d rather my modded M30 for sure. For me the coolest mod is probably to give up and buy a 60’s 911 Have to win the lottery first though with the prices of them now.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2183_9):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i I suspect that it’s urethane / solid engine mounts that do the damage to the front subframe more than power output by transmitting engine vibrations through the crossmember - and maybe rust? I’ve always run rubber engine mounts, and we don’t have salted roads down here so rust isn’t much of a problem. The reinforcement is such a cheap mod, that if you’re worried it’s worthwhile doing. yeah I'm hard mounted on everything