QUESTION ID: 3469

QUESTION:
So I know BMWNA put a stop on selling "euro" parts to us that want to put "euro" stuff on our US based car. I have read that they need a registration to a Euro car. Well I got a 1986 324d that's been imported over here some time ago and the clean PA title in my hand. I'm not restoring the car cause it's a rusty hunk of 4 door goodness. But it would be nice to be able to get trim and miscellaneous stuff if I ever do need stuff for an early model. So what exactly do they ask for when you go to order parts that are blocked?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3469_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro 15x7 "Euroweaves" came stock on a US model though. 91 M technic. This is BS but yet another reason I'm glad I picked up my euro car. Beat me to it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3469_11):
Originally posted by AndrewBird They need to see the title, not the registration. I just went through this with Blunt. Had to send him a picture of the title to send to BMW. Guess it depends who you go to because a registration has worked in the past

ANSWER 3 (id: 3469_12):
what a load of shit! so you cant just walk into another dealer and give them the part number and say you want some of these? could pelican parts order them for you?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3469_13):
Actually, most manufactures won't allow it. When I owned a Ford Focus, I did a Euro conversion to the front end, and I had to buy everything outside the US. None of the dealers would or could get the majority of euro only parts. Even with a part number.. Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3469_3):
Originally posted by AndrewBird They need to see the title, not the registration. I just went through this with Blunt. Had to send him a picture of the title to send to BMW. Exactly this. I forward blunt a pic of title in email for parts. Im actually pretty sure he just has mine on hand cause i order so much. I don't even send any more haha.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3469_6):
Originally posted by Mfever Never had this issue. Ordered a set of euro weaves from the dealer 2 moths ago no questions asked. 15x7 "Euroweaves" came stock on a US model though. 91 M technic. This is BS but yet another reason I'm glad I picked up my euro car.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3469_7):
We ran in to the same issue - though if you talk to the right people in BMW NA, you can get stuff.. We have been stock pilling a few Euro vin's for cars we own, worked on..etc. I am not sure the exact reason - but have heard everything from BMW not wanting to deal with the stock numbers/shipping or because of NTHSB never approving the items and they don't want to be liable...etc.