QUESTION ID: 2121

QUESTION:
I had a somewhat off the walls idea yesterday and wanted to hear y’all’s thoughts and maybe provide some tips: So I’ve always wanted a coupe but I happen to have a sedan, I was wondering if anyone had toyed with the idea of immobilizing the rear doors? And also if anyone has any tips those are always greatly appreciated! Thanks y’all!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2121_1):
Originally posted by travis_e30 I had a somewhat off the walls idea yesterday and wanted to hear y’all’s thoughts and maybe provide some tips: So I’ve always wanted a coupe but I happen to have a sedan, I was wondering if anyone had toyed with the idea of immobilizing the rear doors? And also if anyone has any tips those are always greatly appreciated! Thanks y’all! Nothing stopping you from welding the rear doors shut. However you will be left with a funny looking car, as the 2-door E30s have longer front doors. Getting into the back seat even with folding front seats from a coupe will also be near impossible. I would suggest trying this for a bit of fun with a throw-away car, not an E30.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2121_10):
Originally posted by varg Wow, it's not April 1st... Sell your E30 to someone who isn't going to ruin it by doing some awful butchering to it Just wait til you see the e21 that’s about to show up at my house

ANSWER 3 (id: 2121_12):
Originally posted by Vincenze There is a guy in Canoga Park who strips E30s and then sells shells. This shell cost $2,000. NONONONONONO 2mAn how about we delete this post so no one patronizes someone who parts out useful E30s?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2121_3):
Originally posted by Panici Nothing stopping you from welding the rear doors shut. However you will be left with a funny looking car, as the 2-door E30s have longer front doors. Getting into the back seat even with folding front seats from a coupe will also be near impossible. I would suggest trying this for a bit of fun with a throw-away car, not an E30. I didn’t notice how much longer those doors are haha, def out of my skill set replacing doors, cutting unibody frame, and making glass work, overall it’s wayy cheaper to just get a coupe shell and swap everything over from the sedan

ANSWER 5 (id: 2121_4):
Actually, the proper way to do this is to weld the front door shut and extend the steering wheel and pedals to the back seat, deleting the front seats.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2121_5):
Originally posted by travis_e30 I didn’t notice how much longer those doors are haha, def out of my skill set replacing doors, cutting unibody frame, and making glass work, overall it’s wayy cheaper to just get a coupe shell and swap everything over from the sedan Also no.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2121_8):
Given a 2 door shell exists, there's no reason not to just get a 2 door. but, arguably if you were actually serious about converting a shell from 4 door to 2 door, you would just about need half of a 2 door shell to transplant it into a 4 door. Rear quarter and rear window, and the B pillar from a 2 door. cut off the old ones and weld on the new ones. Sounds simple when you say it fast and not at all beyond the possibilities for a skilled panel beater. But unless there are no 2 doors left......really not worth while at all. Back in the day here in Australia there was a guy that did this to a ke70 corolla. we never got the 2 doors here in Australia - but most of the rest of the world did, but we got plenty of 4 doors. he managed to buy the longer front doors from overseas and fabricated the rest - i believe he just moved the original B pillar back to suit, and then just filled in the rear "door" area with some steel panel. Hell of a lot of work. but it did work and looked pretty neat in the end. Unfortuntaely almost all of the photos are gone, but there are a couple in here that show him cutting stuff up. Love Ke70's Hks 1g 2 Door Ke70 https://www.rollaclub.com/board/topic/33283-love-ke70s-hks-1g-2-door-ke70/#comments hey guys thought it was about time i got serious about a rides thread, seeings as there is alot of dollars going into this car i thought i should atleast boast about it a little :rolleyes: its kind of a long story, but basically i bought it at the very end of 2005/start of 2006, too long ago, off...