QUESTION ID: 2213

QUESTION:
I have had my euro spec 83' 323i for quite some time now, coming up on 6 years. Only mods I have done is purple tag rack, and an mtech 1 steering wheel. The goal has always been to restore the car back to its former glory and along the way modify it. What does everyone think of a 323i that has been turned into an mtech 1 spec for spec sheet (except for the paint its burgondrot, and a 2.7 stroker with 731 head). I am not intending to pull it off as a genuine mtech car, I just want to know what everyone's opinion is of a base model e30 turned mtech. Also, does anyone here like build threads still? This car will get a nut and bolt resto soon probably will repaint the chassis and fix all rust. Gathering the tools required for this.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2213_0):
Do it, it's your car. There's another member on here who went the replica Mtech1 route with his 323. Has an s52 in that thing too and it's pretty well sorted. When people ask if it's a real mtech car, the answer is NO and that's the end of it. If it looks well executed noone will care if it's a replica.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2213_1):
sounds like you know what you want. i would say go for it. personally though i like the engine mods over the m-tech stuff. that's not a reason not to do it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2213_10):
Theres a guy in Australia that sells the copy kit for around 1000aud just near me actually, Even if it requires a little bit of body work to get it perfect thats a pretty damn good deal. and fitting a used oem kit is not exactly going to be a bolt on. They are all pretty sad by now. After i sort out the LSD i think that body kit might be the next thing on the list. https://mrbodykits.com.au/products/m...32790210609230

ANSWER 4 (id: 2213_11):
If you get one (or if you’ve seen one fitted) let us know how it fits. I’ve been eyeing off the mr bodykits m-tech 1 kit too for my coupe project. Saw photos of a car here in Adelaide with the m-tech 2 front and rear bars unpainted and they seemed a pretty good fit. Unfortunately I don’t think they ship internationally when another r3v member enquired.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2213_12):
I saw one fitted at the local coffee and cars the other week. The back and front bars looked cool and oem, but the side skirts look a little odd and probably the one area i dont particular like. like they are sort of tacked on. I mean as far as side skirts they look alright, but not as good as genuine oem. I'm no mtech 1 expert but the oem skirts kind of go up at the ends to follow the wheel arch, but the ones from mr body kits are just straight and dont go up the wheel arches. Im going to coffee and cars again this week so ill see if its there and take some photos.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2213_13):
Has anyone used the mtech 1 kit from CAtuned? Any installation or fit issues? Kit looks good but I haven't seen anything on installation like directions or maybe a video

ANSWER 7 (id: 2213_3):
This reads like a teenage girl in a group chat trying to work out what hair style to wear to school tomorrow. But to answer your question, you shouldn't do it. Instead you should give me the kit so I can do it to my 323.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2213_4):
Ha! great replies. I just want to avoid being the guy who puts an M Badge on his bmw claiming its an M car. I know when I see some bozo putting an M badge on his car I think its distasteful. But I will never claim it is a 'real' M tech.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2213_5):
Originally posted by e30davie This reads like a teenage girl in a group chat trying to work out what hair style to wear to school tomorrow. But to answer your question, you shouldn't do it. Instead you should give me the kit so I can do it to my 323. This is the correct answer.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2213_6):
Originally posted by skitzy777 Ha! great replies. I just want to avoid being the guy who puts an M Badge on his bmw claiming its an M car. I know when I see some bozo putting an M badge on his car I think its distasteful. But I will never claim it is a 'real' M tech. My car is a 323i and it was optioned from the factory with m-tech suspension, but no other mtech bits. is mine an mtech? is it more mtech than yours? can I half claim it? I actually tell my wife its an M3, shes very impressed. You're over thinking it mate, just bolt the bits on and make sure you paint them properly first. nothing worse than body panels that are on and unpainted because i'm "saving up for paint"....

ANSWER 11 (id: 2213_7):
Originally posted by e30davie I actually tell my wife its an M3, shes very impressed. lol Yeah, I guess I am over thinking it. I am just a butt hurt for genuine spec sheets but my car will never be 'true' mtech so screw it ill make it the best I can. Just saw a recent mtech 1 car for sale in australia.. 70k.. nuts. Fact that I have a 323i and dont have to worry about impeding on its authenticity makes me feel better.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2213_8):
Frankly, the ones who have a hard on for spec sheets, options, 1/#, and originality are the ones missing the point. They're cars, they are meant to be used, they can be changed and then changed again. In fact, those guys should love someone modifying their car as it just makes their static display model even more "rare."

ANSWER 13 (id: 2213_9):
Not a big deal really. These cars are so old that few people can tell the difference between original or correct rare parts vs replica. Used OEM M tech kits are only getting older...replicas are a good alternative but the cost should be considered as well. I'm not paying 2k for a replica kit when I can get used originals for a little more. Used OEM will always have better value over time, if you can swing it. I have the CEP kit on my 323i but I got it for a good price and the look is spot on. The kit really transforms the car. You just have to decide what's best for you.