QUESTION ID: 2443

QUESTION:
2020 Secret Santa is here! Greetings Everyone, It's time for us to get this year's Secret Santa gift exchange rolling. I think we've had great time with big turnouts in the past. We missed last year for some reason and believe me, I'm sure we could all use a little entertainment right about now, I think that goes without saying. so here's the deal: respond to this thread if you're in the game. then, PM me with the following information: BEFORE NOV 26th 2020 SECRET SANTA as the title of your PM - R3VLimited Username - First and Last name - Mailing Address (FULL ADDRESS) - Year and model of your e30 (or BMW) - At least 3 things that interest you (ex. movies, books, car stuff, or anything else that you are interested in or like etc.) Might also want to include T-Shirt size etc. [simple smart rules from the past] *If you've neglected to send a gift in the past you're barred from participating *Asshattery and douche-baggery will not be tolerated. Absolutely NO WHINING!!! *Once on THE LIST, you must send something reasonable and creative to the name PM'd to you. *Names will begin being PM'd out on 11/27, plenty of time to get a gift out for Christmas and a couple days before Cyber Monday. *There is no cap, you can be as generous as you wish but there is a $20-$25 minimum for gifts. *Gifts should be sent out by Dec. 17th. Please PM me when you've mailed the gift. You can provide the tracking number if you wish, but keep the proof of shipment in case there is confusion. I'll start and keep an updated list of who is participating in post #2 All communication is going to be through R3V PM, so clear out those inbox's!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2443_2):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I dont even think we have enough people active enough to pull this off, but if we someone can scrape up enough people, count me in. it's worth a shot... come on dudes... sent from hell using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 2443_4):
secret santa used to be great fun. let's pull the plug. hope you all have great finish to the year. keep up the e30. see ya on the streets... sent from hell using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 2443_7):
Originally posted by cheffy30 sadly yes... was hoping for a better turnout. this was a safe covid activity. sent from hell using Tapatalk How many in? Can still do it between us?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2443_8):
It's just us on this thread. Let's do it! I'll tap into the list from interest last year as a last ditch effort... Stand by!! sent from hell using Tapatalk