QUESTION ID: 3138

QUESTION:
3 years, 5 e30s, 4 roadtrips to pick up parts, 3 m42's, 2 m20s, 1 m10, and 3 m30s. Countless $9 an hour paychecks, more then a couple college classes skipped, hundreds of man hours alone in the garage getting over my ex and pondering life while I turn a wrench. Thousands of hours scouring the internet, countless trips to Autozone and bap geon and a whole lot of blood sweat tears and prayers. The road to e30 nirvana (or most any car build) is not one for the faint of heart. Luckily Ive been absolutely obsessed with e30s since the first time I got a ride in one a couple years ago. The first car I built was t-boned less then a week after I got it on the road but that didn't really deter me from getting another one and building it to an even higher level. Its been almost a year since I started my complete e30, engine swap, teardown and rebuild and I'm so so close. After spending like 8 hours on her today, I'm really starting to get to the point where I just want to drive the damn thing. How do you guys stay motivated throughout such an intensive build? My friends think I'm crazy, but every time I get a ride in an e30, or even see a clean one (like mine ;) on the internet I know I can't quit. Don't have many good pictures of her because she's hasn't been out of the garage for a year butttt. . Im sure I'm not the only one who's 20 and broke af trying to build the dream e30. Thoughts??

ANSWER 1 (id: 3138_10):
Builds take time, take work, and take money. Just remember, this is why clean projects are so incredibly cool. Someone put in tons of work; every build has its setbacks. Not everyone is capable of finishing a build, hell, I've scrapped a few projects along the way myself. But I love my cars, so I keep coming back. But sometimes taking a break is the best option. To quote JFK "We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too."

ANSWER 2 (id: 3138_11):
Took me over 5 yrs to completely build my S13 from a stripped shell to as close to perfection as I could within my means. Always stay interested bro. I got to a point where I didn't uncover the car for 6 months because I had no money nor any will. My friend took me out in his car and basically gave me full licence to do whatever I wanted with it just to get me motivated again. The next day I'd completely pulled the wiring for the chassis and began the process of thinning and tucking. It was tedious..It was free..and I learned entirely too much about wiring than I was hoping; but at least my hands were on the car. Couple side/weekend jobs later, I had money to jump start the project. Motivation is key, and so is a group of close car friends always tormenting you about finishing the damn thing.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3138_12):
Took me 1 1/2 years for my e30 to get "done" and now I'm getting ready to redo the seats again and finally do the m3 back seat. Its still automajic and the head build isnt even started, but I know I will enjoy doing that as much as all the other work thats been done. Dont look at working on a car as a chore, more of something different, for me its fun and relaxing until I drop a wrench on my face, but, I get over it and keep going. Dont lose hope and dont keep putting it off. When you finish the car, you will be happy.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3138_2):
Likewise. Getting raped at the exhaust shop kinda took the thunder out of my s52 swap. Didn't get the car back until end of summer and there are still some engine temp issues to figure out. Amazingly the swap had gone pretty smoothly up until then...

ANSWER 5 (id: 3138_3):
As someone who has gone through a few builds on different cars so far, I can say, it is important to stay motivated and keep wrenching, but it is also important to know when to take a break for your mental health. If you are feeling burnt out, don't be afraid to take a few days (or weeks) off. I also have a habit of getting a car on the road, and then working around that. I've swapped in running engine's just to get a car rolling while I rebuild my ideal engine to re-swap later on. While that sometimes means doing the same job twice, it also means getting to enjoy my cars in between repairs or modifications, which helps prevent the car from falling to the back burner, and being forgotten. Lastly, I try not to think "I'm going to work for 8 hours today", but rather, "I'm going to perform x and y tasks on the car today". Usually that means I end up doing not just x and y, but z (or more) as well, but it also means I finish the day thinking of how much I accomplished, rather than how much I have left.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3138_6):
Originally posted by ahrensNW ^Where are the bolts on your wheels? It has a couple bolts on there. Theyre just on there to roll the car around. It moves no more than about 20 ft onto the lift and back to same spot again.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3138_7):
Originally posted by Andy.B Lastly, I try not to think "I'm going to work for 8 hours today", but rather, "I'm going to perform x and y tasks on the car today". Usually that means I end up doing not just x and y, but z (or more) as well, but it also means I finish the day thinking of how much I accomplished, rather than how much I have left. That's probably the best advice. I tend to make a list, starting with simple things like, "remove ____ bolts" or "Drain coolant" or "install muffler." It feels good to cross things off even if they're just easy things, but it gives you momentum to keep working. But it can be tough finding the energy after working 23 consecutive days.