QUESTION ID: 2646

QUESTION:
Anyone here ever done DIY zinc plating before? Thinking of giving it a go, then doing the chromate coating for an upcoming....project. I've watched a million youtube vids but wanted to see if anyone here had a good method they've used and found works well. Thanks guys!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2646_0):
never done it before but especially if the piece is large it might be easier and cheaper to just take it to a galvanization facility. they have them all over. just my first impression. if its small it may be worth it but I imagine the proper procedure is more complex than just submerging the piece in molten zinc

ANSWER 2 (id: 2646_10):
Originally posted by AndrewBird OP, I'm assuming you already know about Caswell and their kits: Plating Kits - Copy Cad® & Zinc Plating Kits - Caswell Inc https://www.caswellplating.com/electroplating-anodizing/zinc-plating-kits.html Yes, I've seen those. May end up going that route. We've been playing with rust removal by electrolysis during downtime at the shop. I want to see about doing the fuel rail and DI lines on my N54 as well, but not sure how the coating will do with the fuel and pressures.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2646_11):
Originally posted by Vincenze Can't you just get bolts and nuts that look generic from another supplier much cheaper? Also, isn't it better to replace all lock nuts with the ones that have nylon rings? I'm won't use non original manufacturer bolts, the brands and markings on the heads are extremely important to me. Yes on replacing the nyloc nuts but realistically they are perfectly reusable. Super Anal OCD aside look at how many fasteners are laid on on my tool box, price those out at 50c or $1 each (some would be much much more) and its well worth it to have the original hardware processed and replated.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2646_12):
Originally posted by AndrewBird OP, I'm assuming you already know about Caswell and their kits: Can you just buy Yellow Chromate to make white zinc parts golden? https://www.caswellplating.com/elect...-chromate.html I found this DIY for plating https://www.yamaha-enduros.com/index...s?limitstart=0

ANSWER 5 (id: 2646_13):
Originally posted by AndrewBird Not what he is talking about. He is talking about zinc electroplating. No molten metal involved. OP, I'm assuming you already know about Caswell and their kits: Plating Kits - Copy Cad® & Zinc Plating Kits - Caswell Inc https://www.caswellplating.com/electroplating-anodizing/zinc-plating-kits.html I see that now, I don't know why but the first thing that came to my mind was hot dip galvanizing a subframe or trailing arm which could actually be kinda cool. my mistake!

ANSWER 6 (id: 2646_3):
Originally posted by slammin.e28 Ohhh I'll have to check Jordan's threads out then. It's mostly for hardware and what not that will be seen, just to give it that little.....panache. his alpine white 318is's hardware looks factory its nuts.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2646_4):
Originally posted by Motheye99 his alpine white 318is's hardware looks factory its nuts. Yeah, I'm going to be pulling my e28 out of the weeds to do a proper job on it soon. I read that the coating isn't great for big stuff, like heavy engine fasteners, but the majority of what I want to do it smaller stuff for aesthetics.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2646_5):
I prep all my own material, and then drop it off at a local place to have it bright zinc plated with yellow dichromate finish. They charge ~$90 per batch up to a certain weight, which I'm never anywhere near.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2646_6):
i did my own zinc plating for my own bolts when i restored my miata. It's relatively simple as long as you get the chemistry and setup correct. The yellow that you see on the bolts is a dye called yellow chromate and it adds an addtional layer of corrosion resistance properties. do a search on the cafe racer forums. I got most of my resources on there. I don't remember exactly what i have now but i used mostly household items (vinegar, epson salt etc.)

ANSWER 10 (id: 2646_7):
Can't you just get bolts and nuts that look generic from another supplier much cheaper? For example, the M10x40 bolts for the lollipops 31111137888 have some strange dimples, but they cost $6 each. And this one costs $0.95. BelMetric - Not Found https://www.belmetric.com/10x15-coarse-109-c-506_509_398/bh10x40fylw-hex-bolt-yellow-zinc-109-full-p-2382.html Bel-Metric sells metric hardware & specialty automotive supplies nationwide. Visit our website to purchase metric fasteners, nuts, bolts, Time-Sert kits & more. Also, isn't it better to replace all lock nuts with the ones that have nylon rings?

ANSWER 11 (id: 2646_8):
Have you had a look at Caswell plating kits? I've used them before (Caswell Australia) and they've been pretty good to give things a new looking Yellow Zinc coating. Sure, it's not going to give you 1,000hrs Neutral Salt Spray (NSS) resistance - but for the backyard enthusiast doing a few pieces here & there it does the job

ANSWER 12 (id: 2646_9):
Originally posted by hkv if its small it may be worth it but I imagine the proper procedure is more complex than just submerging the piece in molten zinc Not what he is talking about. He is talking about zinc electroplating. No molten metal involved. OP, I'm assuming you already know about Caswell and their kits: Plating Kits - Copy Cad® & Zinc Plating Kits - Caswell Inc https://www.caswellplating.com/electroplating-anodizing/zinc-plating-kits.html