QUESTION ID: 3326

QUESTION:
Hey guys. One of the things I love the most about Kentucky would be our vehicle laws. We have no SMOG test. No restriction on tire size. Our tint law is very loose. I see so many people having to work and work and spend money on their exhaust set-up just to meet SMOG. What are the laws for your area? I have seen many cars with 10 wide wheels (Stupid massive poke) and no exhaust with all black tint. I know Cali is the worst. But enlighten me.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3326_0):
Well, we just got tighter safety inspections for used vehicles in Ontario. No sure on the specifics... I haven't bought a car since 2012 here. Cars older than 25 years are emissions exempt. Things like tint, etc vary from province to province.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3326_10):
growing up in michigan, we didn't have anything. people drove the most crapped out rusty mufflerless feeble pieces of shit...in the history of hoopty pieces of shit. texas(big cities like houston at least) has inspections for safety and emissions for cars less than 25yrs old

ANSWER 3 (id: 3326_11):
Originally posted by nando honestly, I wish we at least had safety inspections. you should see some of the cars on the streets here. And the diesels that "roll coal" can go fuck themselves. I'd rather listen to 10 fart can civics than one more lifted diesel with dual 8" exhaust stacks.. technically we have front plate laws here - but none of the cops here seem to care about my E30. I also don't drive like an asshole, though. I always have penny's handy to flick out for these mouth breathers.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3326_12):
Originally posted by flyboyx growing up in michigan, we didn't have anything. people drove the most crapped out rusty mufflerless feeble pieces of shit...in the history of hoopty pieces of shit. texas(big cities like houston at least) has inspections for safety and emissions for cars less than 25yrs old Nothing has changed since we both left. Its not much different here in MT no emmisons no inspections no one cares so long as the cops dont see shit falling off it. Though in my area they have a far better chance of running into the Orange Diablo that was parked at Safeway last week, Or the purple one I saw a while back, or the 56ish Porsche 356 I saw roaming about yesterday... Etc... We have lots of shitastic clapped out POS's that the winters and washboard roads just eat. Its worse in other parts of the state where there is not as much money relocating to, especially out on the High plains

ANSWER 5 (id: 3326_13):
Originally posted by mrsleeve Nothing has changed since we both left. Its not much different here in MT no emmisons no inspections no one cares so long as the cops dont see shit falling off it. Though in my area they have a far better chance of running into the Orange Diablo that was parked at Safeway last week, Or the purple one I saw a while back, or the 56ish Porsche 356 I saw roaming about yesterday... Etc... We have lots of shitastic clapped out POS's that the winters and washboard roads just eat. Its worse in other parts of the state where there is not as much money relocating to, especially out on the High plains i'm probably going to get the shit flamed out of myself for saying this, but after leaving michigan and seeing how much safer cars generally are in states were there are inspections, it seems to make a fairly strong case for every state to at least have a minimum safety regulation for vehicles to comply with once a year.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3326_2):
I live in Flagstaff, AZ. Vehicles laws here are incredibly relaxed. It makes being a car enthusiast very very easy. No smog, no inspection, no front plate, etc. etc. etc. I have been driving here for years, often times in my E30 racecar with dark tint and loud exhaust and I have never been pulled over for a car related reason.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3326_3):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is I live in Flagstaff, AZ. Vehicles laws here are incredibly relaxed. It makes being a car enthusiast very very easy. No smog, no inspection, no front plate, etc. etc. etc. I have been driving here for years, often times in my E30 racecar with dark tint and loud exhaust and I have never been pulled over for a car related reason. That is nice! That's how it is here. No front plates required. I agree some of the more JDM countries are insane. With nice benefits to driving a 2 year or newer car. Plus the Kei cars.... I love those things.... In regards to Opel- I have seen 1 Peugeot sedan in the States.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3326_4):
honestly, I wish we at least had safety inspections. you should see some of the cars on the streets here. And the diesels that "roll coal" can go fuck themselves. I'd rather listen to 10 fart can civics than one more lifted diesel with dual 8" exhaust stacks.. technically we have front plate laws here - but none of the cops here seem to care about my E30. I also don't drive like an asshole, though.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3326_5):
Around 2010 or so, they got rid of safety inspections. And as of this year, all cars made 1995 or earlier are now emissions exempt and no longer require an inspection sticker. No complaints, really.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3326_6):
Originally posted by nando honestly, I wish we at least had safety inspections. you should see some of the cars on the streets here. And the diesels that "roll coal" can go fuck themselves. I'd rather listen to 10 fart can civics than one more lifted diesel with dual 8" exhaust stacks.. technically we have front plate laws here - but none of the cops here seem to care about my E30. I also don't drive like an asshole, though. I agree! I have been covered in that crap too. There's a video of a of a civic being painted by coal online. I wish I had safety inspection. But then again I don't, because modified suspension is legal (or never looked at). I truly believe that if some states were to have to enforce these laws, there would be a rebellion.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3326_7):
Legitimate safety inspections would not make aftermarket suspension illegal. Blanket laws that say they are not safe do. There is smog here, but all it is is a sniffer test. If you pass, you pass. Doesn't matter how, whether your car is modified or not. I think technically you have to have a cat, but I'm not sure you could pass the sniffer anyway without one. Snog took literally 5 minutes for me. Pull in, leave the car running. Walk to the booth, give them my info and by that time the guy in the garage already took the measurements and they tell you if you passed. Done and done.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3326_8):
Originally posted by nando honestly, I wish we at least had safety inspections. you should see some of the cars on the streets here. And the diesels that "roll coal" can go fuck themselves. I'd rather listen to 10 fart can civics than one more lifted diesel with dual 8" exhaust stacks.. THIS :hitler:

ANSWER 13 (id: 3326_9):
In Connecticut cars older than 25 years are exempt from emissions. We have property tax on cars here but if you have an antique plate you are pretty much exempt from that too. No mileage/insurance restrictions for antique plates either. We went from plate reg tags to windshield stickers to nothing at all in a matter of 6 years No safety inspection here, but up in Mass there is. Some cars here would benefit from the safety inspection due to the amount of rust you'll see. But I'm glad for my car because it's less to worry about. Thankfully there are very few civics.. the salt killed most of them :D