QUESTION ID: 2230

QUESTION:
I'm starting to gather parts to do a suspension refresh on my '89 325i and I'm undecided about which springs to go with. The car has around 232k on it and I believe the coil springs are original. It's sagging a bit on the captain's side. I like the idea of lowering it a little bit, but I really like the stock ride quality and have no plans to track or race the car. The roads here (Chicago) are also pretty rough, and I'm kind of old, so a stiff ride or too low is not what I'm after. Part of me wants to just go with stock springs, but I know it will ride high with them. I would love to hear the opinions of people who have used H&R OE Sport springs (part # 50404-55) and how their ride quality compares to stock. And also which shocks and strut inserts you went with. Here's a shot of the car with its current suspension. It's got 14" basketweaves with 205/55R14 tires on it. I have a set of 15" Euroweaves that will go on her after the suspension refresh is done. Thanks in advance for any input on this. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2230_0):
https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...tein-b4-shocks My post is in that thread regarding OE Sports. I ran them for a short while with KYBs and e90 drop hats, and they were great. Ride quality felt like stock, but made the car feel just a touch more responsive over stock. I think the ultimate spring for your use would be E30M3 springs, but alas they aren't anywhere to be found. Also, mike.bmw runs them on his 318iS and loves them- he also posted in that thread, but he has ample info regarding his experience with the springs in his build thread.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2230_1):
I did a suspension overhaul a few months ago, ended up going with Koni Sports and H&R Sport Springs (p/n 50406), so not OE Sport Springs. Figured you still may appreciate the input. Below are pictures of the height differences. Before After It lowered it a nice amount in my opinion, not overly excessive. I also installed 95a poly bushings during my suspension overhaul, so NVH was increased a slight amount afterwards. My old shocks were blown so I can't even really give a fair evaluation of the stock suspension. I would bottom out and scrape my oil pan all the time, but I have yet to since the overhaul. The car's much more responsive overall and I've loved it as a daily. I'm only 18 though, so what would annoy you probably isn't even noticeable to me. My guess is that those OE Sport Springs will lower your car just a tad less than mine, keeping it with a tasteful look and a smooth ride.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2230_2):
Thanks, guys! I do appreciate it. AWDBOB Any reason you ended up going with a different set up? I really like the way she sits, will likely go the e90 drop hat route, as well. rudy Interesting. Your car doesn't look as low as I figured the regular Sport Springs would drop it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2230_3):
Originally posted by Johnny Haywire Thanks, guys! I do appreciate it. AWDBOB Any reason you ended up going with a different set up? I really like the way she sits, will likely go the e90 drop hat route, as well. rudy Interesting. Your car doesn't look as low as I figured the regular Sport Springs would drop it. I have an obsession with taking things that are good and work very well, and changing them for no reason. I built coilovers for the car. I now walk by the OE sports in the garage with a regretful tear in my eye.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2230_4):
The H&R OE Sport springs worked great on my car as a daily driver. The ride was sporty enough, but still civil on the rough roads of LA. Ride height wasn't too low either, around a 1-inch drop. I ran them with Bilstein HD shocks and 15-inch wheels. For some extra adjustability, Koni Sport shocks are a great choice too. Attached Files

ANSWER 6 (id: 2230_5):
Originally posted by mtech325 The H&R OE Sport springs worked great on my car as a daily driver. The ride was sporty enough, but still civil on the rough roads of LA. Ride height wasn't too low either, around a 1-inch drop. I ran them with Bilstein HD shocks and 15-inch wheels. For some extra adjustability, Koni Sport shocks are a great choice too. That's a really great stance. Did you use drop hats up front?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2230_7):
Originally posted by mtech325 I kept the stock e30 spring hats, so no drop hats. Right on, and thanks for the input. Great setting for that photo, btw.