QUESTION ID: 181

QUESTION:
Hi All, Once the engine has started, my ignition cannot be toggled back into the Start position without being brought out of Run first. This is a problem as power to my Standalone ECU and Wideband O2 controller is killed when the ignition is moved out of Run into Acc. I have to wait for the O2 controller to do it's thing before getting on the throttle after a stall/restart or the ECU will cut ignition under AFR Protection mode. My question is this: Can I modify the ignition (detents?) to allow selecting the Start position at any time? Everything else I've driven doesn't have a starter position lockout, and I've never tried to start an already running engine yet!

ANSWER 1 (id: 181_0):
I would modify the afr protection mode such that it only operates above a certain throttle percentage or rpm value. as who cares if the AFR is wrong at idle. it might run poorly but at least it will still run. Sounds like at the moment if your wideband fails one day, you wont be able to drive at all, not ideal. Then you can start it and drive whilst the wideband is initializing/heating up, ive been doing this for years on mine. I recently got a replacement ignition switch for my car and it has the stupid lockout too. my old one didnt have it. it is pretty annoying when the car doesn't start the first time. turn it all the way off then turn it back on..

ANSWER 2 (id: 181_1):
I'm not sure about modifying the key to be able to restart without keying off first, but I think installing a start button would be simpler and achieve the same thing. You should be able to leave the car in "run" to keep the accessories on, and the button will trigger the starter. Here's an old DIY thread about it: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-technical-forums/e30-faq-and-diy/59578-engine-push-start-button-install

ANSWER 3 (id: 181_2):
Originally posted by e30davie I would modify the afr protection mode such that it only operates above a certain throttle percentage or rpm value. as who cares if the AFR is wrong at idle. it might run poorly but at least it will still run. I do have it set to operate within RPM & MAP windows. But if I need to get on the throttle/into boost right after a restart the car falls flat on it's face with ignition cut. Not ideal if I'm trying to clear an intersection. I could close some of the AFR protection window, but then it wouldn't provide me as much of a safety net. ​ Originally posted by McGyver I'm not sure about modifying the key to be able to restart without keying off first, but I think installing a start button would be simpler and achieve the same thing. You should be able to leave the car in "run" to keep the accessories on, and the button will trigger the starter. Here's an old DIY thread about it: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...button-install I did consider a starter button, but I'd rather have that as a Plan B. It would be better to make the existing ignition switch do it's job properly IMO.

ANSWER 4 (id: 181_3):
Originally posted by Panici I do have it set to operate within RPM & MAP windows. But if I need to get on the throttle/into boost right after a restart the car falls flat on it's face with ignition cut. Not ideal if I'm trying to clear an intersection. I could close some of the AFR protection window, but then it wouldn't provide me as much of a safety net. ​I did consider a starter button, but I'd rather have that as a Plan B. It would be better to make the existing ignition switch do it's job properly IMO. Do you have an option to delay the protection by 30 seconds or something? That would let you move out of a dangerous spot while maintaining protection. I guess BMW added the lockout to prevent people from engaging the starter while the car is running. From that perspective, it's kind of a cool feature. Maybe you can just buy an older version of the cylinder without the lockout protection and re-key it to your current keys?

ANSWER 5 (id: 181_4):
Originally posted by McGyver Do you have an option to delay the protection by 30 seconds or something? That would let you move out of a dangerous spot while maintaining protection. I guess BMW added the lockout to prevent people from engaging the starter while the car is running. From that perspective, it's kind of a cool feature. Maybe you can just buy an older version of the cylinder without the lockout protection and re-key it to your current keys? I will have to check on the time delay for the protection, can't recall at the moment. But that would be an acceptable solution. Will have to see if I can find out which older cylinders don't have the lockout protection. So you think the lockout functionality is inside the lock barrel and not the ignition switch?