QUESTION ID: 3329

QUESTION:
Ive been faced with a really tough decision. I found a really neat 92 Euro spec vert. The guy selling sounds like hes willing to do a straight trade for my 91 318is because hes looking for a coupe to swap and build. I love this car but it has 300k km's on it and some rust, compared to the rust free 197k km 318 vert. His doesnt have the lsd and other sport options but I figured it makes up for it with the euro goodies. Im looking for some insight on which choice is better? I know verts are heavier, flex more and leak possibly, but does it really make that big a difference that i would notice? What other pros are there toa vert? Any info will help! thanks in advance

ANSWER 1 (id: 3329_0):
I dont think you could even remotely advise someone on the internet on this, from my persoective. Personally, I dont like verts, but I've also never driven one. Ive just never seen myself enjoying a vert. Then again, you may love it. I'd say drive it and make the decision. A rust free body is a definite plus, but how rusty is your own?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3329_1):
What do you use your E30 for? Choice 1: Do you use it to put a smile on your face when you drive it due to its performance/feedback? Choice 2: Or do you use it to go from A to B? If choice 1, keep the coupe. If choice 2, then its a 50/50 decision for me.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3329_10):
Originally posted by nando I've never liked convertibles - especially things like the "M3" convertibles. But this is definitely something very personal - some would never want a 4-door, I don't think I would like a 2-door. So really you should drive it and decide if you can live with it. Yea that is true, sounds like it's a personal thing. I never thought I'd want a vert but this one kinda stands out . I'll see how I like it

ANSWER 4 (id: 3329_11):
ok, i have had several of both. first of all, your 318is is a lot more desirable and collectable. if both cars were in equal condition with equal miles, the 318is would be worth perhaps 40% more. i AM a convertible guy. i really like e30 convertibles. the one disadvantage of the cabrio is the the wind noise above say.....45mph with the top down is horrendous. it will make your left ear deaf. an aftermarket deflector can be purchased for a little over 100.00. this will cut the noise by perhaps 60% or more. it helps a lot. as far as the cabby being slower than your 318is, thats pretty much baloney. you have a 4.10 in your car and the cabby comes with a 4.27. they are pretty much the same. if you get the convertible, i would look pretty hard to see if you can find a hard top for it. i use my hard top about 90% of the time but is really nice to have the option to take it off and cruise sans the roof. if you do decide this is something you might entertain, do yourself a favor and take out the seats in the cabby, lift up the carpet, and check the floor pans for rust. most all of these have sat outside with a leaky top at one time or another in their lifetimes. with no pictures posted, there is really no way to tell you if this is a good idea or not.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3329_12):
Oh, by the way....what eurospec bits are you referring to on the car you are considering trading for? Unless the car has smiley headlights that are in great shape, (it may- perhaps worth 300 bucks), and chrome euro bumpers (it doesnt) that doesnt mean a lot on a late model.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3329_13):
I DD a vert, all be it a 325. I love it. I had a 325 2dr for a while. You get used to the extra wind noise and IMO it's realy not that bad. Is the 318is realy worth 40% more, I happen to doubt it but IDK for sure. Drive it, you are either going to love it or be megh about it. Compare real sale values. GL man

ANSWER 7 (id: 3329_3):
If I could say one thing, it's that. You need to drive a convertible. You're either a convertible person or you're not. It's a polarizing personal thing in my experience among my car friends. If you have a hard top, it's just as good a DD as any other e30. On the performance point, adding a cross brace will fix the rigidity issues to the point that 95% of drivers wouldn't know the difference. My vert sees a lot of autocross time and outperforms e30 coupes in it's class just fine, despite the likely weight gain.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3329_4):
I wouldn't touch a 318 convertible with a 20 foot pole, rust free or not. I've driven 325 convertibles and they're slow and sloppy enough as it is, I can't imagine driving one with 30 less hp. Disclaimer: I absolutely loathe convertibles of all sort, not just E30s.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3329_5):
Originally posted by jaredmac11 I dont think you could even remotely advise someone on the internet on this, from my persoective. Personally, I dont like verts, but I've also never driven one. Ive just never seen myself enjoying a vert. Then again, you may love it. I'd say drive it and make the decision. A rust free body is a definite plus, but how rusty is your own? Mine isn't too rusty just a couple spots around the wheel well, but it's a combination of that plus the whole car in general jus isn't as clean as I'd like it o be. I'll take a look at the vert and see what type of condition it's in. I would just prefer to start off with a clean base with more value than my e30 before I go putting money towards it.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3329_6):
As for the speed, weight and sloppiness issue. I think I'll go test drive it then and if it handles, corners and accelerates similar to mine I'm happy. I've gotten used to the m42 and enjoy it enough as is, just gotta see how it feels with the added weight and less stability I guess

ANSWER 11 (id: 3329_7):
Originally posted by Nick's e30 On the performance point, adding a cross brace will fix the rigidity issues to the point that 95% of drivers wouldn't know the difference. My vert sees a lot of autocross time and outperforms e30 coupes in it's class just fine, despite the likely weight gain. That's good to hear. If I drive it and do like how it feels and decide to get it, have you done anything else other than the cross brace to improve the overall handling or rigidity of it?

ANSWER 12 (id: 3329_8):
I used to have a 325i convertible and it was a lot of fun. They're great on a nice warm day but its a completely different driving experience. To me, my 318is felt peppier. I can't imagine how slow a 318 convertible will feel. It's worth checking out though. Nothing beats driving with the top down, on a nice day, with some good tunes turned up.

ANSWER 13 (id: 3329_9):
I've never liked convertibles - especially things like the "M3" convertibles. But this is definitely something very personal - some would never want a 4-door, I don't think I would like a 2-door. So really you should drive it and decide if you can live with it.