QUESTION ID: 3346

QUESTION:
i have two favorites: sterlingsilber/cardinal royalblau/schwartz (alpina blue is way up there too) least favorite: bronzit/tan(poor red headed step child color always taking crap from members) i'm personally not a fan of brilliantrot but some of our members have really pretty red cars.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3346_0):
Gletscherblau and Cirrusblau are nice, especially with early Euro bumpers. Red and white for late model cars. Don't care for black, dark blue, maroon, or green.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3346_1):
Marrakesh Brown with Hipster Plaid (houndstooth) interior. Something about the Brown when done right (MTech1) on an E30, I can't stop starring at it. Or Hennarot with Euro bumpers on an early car. That is just cool. Least favorite is hard to say, I like almost any color. And done right, they are going to look great. But interior, tan is not good. It just never wears well and time is not kind to it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3346_3):
Im assuming we are talking OEM colors. I think that any e30 that is well taken care of is good. Im kinda partial to my triple blue. Any grayish with cardinal especially with a cardinal top...yummy! Least in the Techno violet w/ purple MT2 stich Neon green w green MT2 stitch.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3346_5):
Originally posted by N2MYE30 I think that any e30 that is well taken care of is good. I'm biased, but I think Cirrusblau on an early car, and Royalblau on any car (although I don't know if it was offered on plastic bumper cars...) are best. I think my interior setup is pretty cool with black door cards and tan seats/speaker covers, but I can't say if that's original or not. Least favorite is tougher, although maybe the variety of tans and browns as a unit. Gazellebeige, bronzitbeige, mauritiusbraun, etc. I've never seen a brown car that looked good except an XKE, and that car would look good with anything on it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3346_6):
I think my top four favorites are: Cirrus Blue/Tan Leather Diamond Schwartz/Cardinal Leather Alpine White/Black Leather Calypso Red/Tan Leather I don't know about my least favorite combo, but I'm not a fan of hellrot.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3346_8):
I'm a pretty big fan of Schwartz/Cardinal. Least favorite? Bronzit, and most blue colors. For whatever reason, I just don't think E30s wear blue very well. Cirrus is an exception.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3346_9):
Delphin/schwartz/alpine white/sterlingsilber & cardinal go well together. Also a fan of schwartz /diamondschwartz & the dark blue interior. Henna & black interior as well Not too big of a fan of brilliantrot or bronzit