QUESTION ID: 1140

QUESTION:
So I bought this M3 from a nice guy in NM. Drove it 1100 miles to Sacramento, CA and soon began my journey. I decided to do a motor swap due to the high cost of S14 rebuilds and the only two BMW motors I considered were an S54 or B38. After further research I found the ECU options for the S54 to be cost prohibitive and the S38 hard to track down at a decent price. I soon decided on an LS1. Ive had a bit under 20 cars in my 30 years (some rarer than E30 M3) and have never been a purist so save your abomination, 50/50 balace falacy, butt hurt comments. Lol Soon after cracking into the car i found the rust on the undercarriage to be severe. So i stripped the complete suspension out and only saved the front crossmember, rear member, rear trailing arms and strut housings. All these items were media blasted and powder coated :-) "silver vein". Everything else is being replaced with new "upgraded components". The engine bay, wheel wells and undercarriage was media blasted, any rust repaired, por-15'd and undercoated. All bolts were replaced with grade 8 zinc plated hardware. Here are a few pics. I'll add more soon. :D Here are some pics of the car when I purchased it Photo Storage http://s1210.photobucket.com/albums/cc419/nmslowguy/M3%20For%20Sale/?start=all Store your photos and videos online with secure storage from Photobucket. Available on iOS, Android and desktop. Securely backup your memories and sign up today!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1140_10):
Originally posted by lambo That doesn't sound that bad at all. Can't wait to see this thing burning rubber haha My appointment with BAR was less than an hour in/out total, including them printing me a sticker. They did not do smog, and asked me to take it to a test only.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1140_11):
Looks like a nice swap! You will need a LS2/7 water pump ..... you need every 1/2 inch you can get in order to have a puller fan behind the radiator. No need to get too crazy with the radiator either; we have a HD '84 Camaro-type with a 22x18x1-3/8 core. works perfect in 100deg weather with the A/C blowing.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1140_12):
Originally posted by garretvs Looks like a nice swap! You will need a LS2/7 water pump ..... you need every 1/2 inch you can get in order to have a puller fan behind the radiator. No need to get too crazy with the radiator either; we have a HD '84 Camaro-type with a 22x18x1-3/8 core. works perfect in 100deg weather with the A/C blowing. Already have one and I'm using your kit. Can wait to get it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1140_2):
Originally posted by Farbin Kaiber I like that finish. Any plans for the LS1? You'll find it easier to put another camshaft into it before it goes into the car. Nothing prior to install. I have to get it "bar'd" and smogged here in Ca and mods would only complicate that. I'll probably do LS6 heads, cam and intake once everything is sorted out.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1140_4):
OP - welcome to the madness :) Yours should be a beast! Would like to check it out one of the days since you are local, I am replacing my m30b35 in my e30 with an m62 since I race in class where the engine has to be of the same make.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1140_5):
I don't live in CA. I thought it was near impossible to BAR a car with a motor not from the same make. Obviously, that isn't entirely true. What all goes into getting a car BAR certified?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1140_7):
Originally posted by archie Interior pics please. Link to photos added to original post. Originally posted by lambo I don't live in CA. I thought it was near impossible to BAR a car with a motor not from the same make. Obviously, that isn't entirely true. What all goes into getting a car BAR certified? Its not as bad as people think. There are only a few rules that are non negotiable. 1) only car motors in cars and only truck motors in trucks. 2) motor must be newer than chasis. 3) has to have all emission equipment the donor vehicle had. Once you complete the sawp to the BAR referees liking he gives you a tag which changes the smog requirements to that of the new motor standard.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1140_9):
Originally posted by LSM3 Its not as bad as people think. There are only a few rules that are non negotiable. 1) only car motors in cars and only truck motors in trucks. 2) motor must be newer than chasis. 3) has to have all emission equipment the donor vehicle had. Once you complete the sawp to the BAR referees liking he gives you a tag which changes the smog requirements to that of the new motor standard. That doesn't sound that bad at all. Can't wait to see this thing burning rubber haha