QUESTION ID: 377

QUESTION:
I really need to find something that will preserve the tires a bit more now that I have a half hour one way commute and am driving 5 times the distance I use to a day. Just looking for a fixed plate design that will take out as much camber as possible. I suppose anything a 1/2* or more would be great.

ANSWER 1 (id: 377_0):
Well, most aftermarket camber plates are made to increase negative camber, not positive. But I am sure you can add some positive with them. You might want to look into getting the BMW OE crash correction mounts. They are just like stock, but depending on how you install them you can get 1/2 degree positive or negative added.

ANSWER 2 (id: 377_10):
Re: Best camber plates for someone on a budget.... Originally posted by Brew Originally posted by Charlie BMW OEM crash mounts. You can flip them to gain postive camber. -Charlie Anybody have a part #? TIA I can't dig up a part number on the ETK for the offset mount. However, shops like Bimmerworld carry them, and I'm sure if you walked up to the dealer and asked for "offset strut top, aka crash mounts", they'd know what you were asking for. -Charlie

ANSWER 3 (id: 377_11):
Re: Best camber plates for someone on a budget.... Originally posted by Charlie Originally posted by Brew Originally posted by Charlie BMW OEM crash mounts. You can flip them to gain postive camber. -Charlie Anybody have a part #? TIA I can't dig up a part number on the ETK for the offset mount. However, shops like Bimmerworld carry them, and I'm sure if you walked up to the dealer and asked for "offset strut top, aka crash mounts", they'd know what you were asking for. -Charlie Yeah, I couldn't find it on the ETK. I'll most likely go to the dealer. Approx. price?

ANSWER 4 (id: 377_12):
Re: Best camber plates for someone on a budget.... Originally posted by Brew Originally posted by Charlie Originally posted by Brew Originally posted by Charlie BMW OEM crash mounts. You can flip them to gain postive camber. -Charlie Anybody have a part #? TIA I can't dig up a part number on the ETK for the offset mount. However, shops like Bimmerworld carry them, and I'm sure if you walked up to the dealer and asked for "offset strut top, aka crash mounts", they'd know what you were asking for. -Charlie Yeah, I couldn't find it on the ETK. I'll most likely go to the dealer. Approx. price? Bimmerworld asks 89/piece for them. I'd give BMA or a place like that a call, see if they stock it as well. -Charlie

ANSWER 5 (id: 377_13):
Yea, I checked out bimmerworld and was blown away by 89 a pop. I got a buddy down in rockville that works at a dealer, deffinately gonna have to give him a call, hopefully I could find something in the 100 range.

ANSWER 6 (id: 377_2):
Re: Best camber plates for someone on a budget.... Originally posted by Avus_325is I really need to find something that will preserve the tires a bit more now that I have a half hour one way commute and am driving 5 times the distance I use to a day. Just looking for a fixed plate design that will take out as much camber as possible. I suppose anything a 1/2* or more would be great. BMW OEM crash mounts. You can flip them to gain postive camber. -Charlie

ANSWER 7 (id: 377_6):
Originally posted by Digitalwave http://www.bmwbushings.com/BMW%20Camber%20Plates.htm Forgot about those; $130 and they are adjustable. I don't think you can get any positive camber with those, which is what this guy needs. I'd still say that the crash mounts are his best bet. -Charlie

ANSWER 8 (id: 377_7):
Thanks guys. The camber isn't terrible but enough so that the wear isn't even. I figure I fix that I'll only be replacing 2 tires (rear) every 8 months.

ANSWER 9 (id: 377_8):
my solution to your problem (i had the same problem) was, i bought the correction upper strut bearings to add 1/2 a degree of positive, and then i bought the IE street camber plates which can add a 1/2 or subtract 2.5, i added a half, so im now back to stock camber, and i also have the option of going to -3.5 for a track day. its a nice set up in my opinion

ANSWER 10 (id: 377_9):
Re: Best camber plates for someone on a budget.... Originally posted by Charlie BMW OEM crash mounts. You can flip them to gain postive camber. -Charlie Anybody have a part #? TIA