QUESTION ID: 2719

QUESTION:
Hello World! This I my first post but I've been snooping in the threads for the past few months to get my 89' 325i vert in better condition than the PO had it. Anyways my brother sent me a photo on instagram of this Alpina with a nice panoramic hardtop. I've never seen one before and I think it looks tight! #e30panroof I didn't dig deep for any info other than what the owner provided. Its 1 of the only 3 BMW ever made conceptually or for an auto show. $15000. Wonder if anyone else ever seen one before or know of where the other 2 are located, just possibly out of knowing people in the e30 community. And then what they think. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2719_0):
From a first look, it looks like a standard hard top but with a extra glass roof on top. You probably could pay a custom shop to make one. Wouldn't be cheap, but 15k seems high to me.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2719_1):
Do you mean $15k for just the roof, or for the whole car? If it's a genuine Alpina C3 2.7 with possibly the only factory panoramic top left and it can be verified, then I'd think $15k was a bit of a steal given what some cars are selling for these days. If it's just the roof, then it's crack pipe stuff :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 2719_2):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Do you mean $15k for just the roof, or for the whole car? If it's a genuine Alpina C3 2.7 with possibly the only factory panoramic top left and it can be verified, then I'd think $15k was a bit of a steal given what some cars are selling for these days. If it's just the roof, then it's crack pipe stuff :) The roof is-was 15k. Its sweet as hell I know nothing about hard tops, as in how it connects to the body. It would be sweet to take the roof and pillars off a trashed car and modify it to work with a convertible then cut out a big opening. Lexan could be bent fairly easy if you are creative but looking through the bend would be nasty, glass would be $$$$$$.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2719_7):
Originally posted by Aleman That's cool for a show car, but practically speaking, it's pretty idiotic. You'd absolutely sweat your NUTS off with that roof. True - it's not like they had the high tech coatings back then that repel heat like they do with the current panoramic roofs. The original thread points out that it's plastic too, so the glasshouse effect would be pretty extreme.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2719_8):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i True - it's not like they had the high tech coatings back then that repel heat like they do with the current panoramic roofs. The original thread points out that it's plastic too, so the glasshouse effect would be pretty extreme. I think since there were only 3 made, the people who had/have them wouldn't be daily driving with it and it would only be for show car use.