QUESTION ID: 2049

QUESTION:
Hello guys, so I already own a 4 door Mtech 1 325i E30 and i am planning to buy yet another one to add to my collection There are 2 Mtech 1 E30s that I saw both are genuine and both are same price, but I have no idea which is more Desirable/Valuable, some people i have heard said that only coupe Mtech 1 cars are valuable not 4 door versions Oher people said that only 2 door 325i Mtech 1 are valuable and not 320i I would love to know more on this subject and what you guys recommend since I cant find any info on that anywhere on the web, I think Mtech 1 cars in general are somehow rare and not many talk about them Appreciate the help

ANSWER 1 (id: 2049_0):
at this point they are all worth something if in decent enough shape. 2 door coupes usually are the most sought after in any model, just because boy racer etc. mtechs have their own market regardless of door numbers. search through BaT for some prices on both.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2049_1):
The 320i had quite a few differences in the early body type - rear drums, often 45mm front struts, small case diff etc. like a 318i. It would pay to check out the 320i to see whether this is the case with the car you’re looking at or not. I would take a 4 door 325i over a 2 door 320i personally, but that doesn’t necessarily reflect what the long term value of the two cars might be. That said - seeing as you already have a 4 door, then adding a 2 door to the stable is probably worth it for the variety. I’m having this same dilemma at the moment with my current e30 and my 2 door project car. I have been working on restoring the 2 door and selingl on my 4 door, but having owned and driven the 4 door for 14 years there’s a nostalgia to it, and I’m starting to wonder whether the 2 door is ultimately worth it or whether I should just sell it on and spend some more money on the 4 door to get it to where I want it (which won’t take much - a bit of an exhaust tidy up, a paint touch up and an Alpina body kit). Either car I’ll keep for the long term and they drive virtually the same so from an enjoyment point of view there’s not much in it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2049_2):
Hey, thanks for the advice man and good luck with your build sounds really interesting alpina will look sick on it Personally i love the 4 door it looks better than the coupe in my opinion after a bodykit fitment ofcourse, the good thing is that mine already has the body kit from the factory Will look more into this purchase i really have no idea what way i’ll go Peace ✌️ zz0.qksa6rr4j6hzz