QUESTION ID: 2445

QUESTION:
Hi All, I'm in the process of purchasing this 1990 325ic but am slightly confused by the appearance package. Was this an OEM dealer option equipped package or something else. Does it enhance or reduce the cars value? It's an excellent condition car with only 24k verified miles.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2445_1):
I haven't seen any rear spoiler on an E30. At this time in the E30's life cycle, just buy what you like. I would not buy an E30 as an investment. There are better stock options to grow your money.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2445_2):
When you say "appearance package" it makes me think of the convertible "m-tech II appearance package", which (IIRC) was only available in white and black. These would have most of the m-tech II stuff (body kit & door sills), but had either white or black leather seats. They also had basket weave wheels with the centers painted either white or black. The full m-tech II package was very similar, but had the m-tech cloth seats in the cool pattern. Both would have been late model only, meaning plastic bumpers Source What you're looking at is clearly an early model US car, it has the large aluminium bumpers. The picture is really small, but: Front - Racing Dynamics early model front valence Side Skirts- It appears to have either late model 325is or ix side skirts grafted on. (The convertibles have taller rocker panels for rigidity, and I think I can see the bottom of the black rocker panel sticking out the bottom) Rear - Racing Dynamics early model rear apron Spoiler - Possibly Racing Dynamics? (can't tell from the picture) It's most of the stuff from a cool period-correct aftermarket kit, but definitely not a dealer option. Complete the kit, switch the bottle caps for racing dynamics wheels, get the racing dynamics interior stuff, and it might add significantly to the value. Right now, its a nice car with most of a cool kit, but I wouldn't pay extra for it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2445_3):
Racing dynamics front valance. Uses m3 fog lights and housing...Looks like Racing Dynamics rear spoiler. Pretty much McGyver has it right. I had RD front valance and it fits pretty good, the rear spoilers Ive always thought they look tacky, Likely the spoiler will hurt the value of the car. I think the IS or Mtech 1 rear spoiler aged very well with theses cars.