QUESTION ID: 1177

QUESTION:
51k-Mile 1989 BMW M3 http://bringatrailer.com/listing/1989-bmw-m3/ Bid for the chance to own a 51k-Mile 1989 BMW M3 at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #29. 51k-Mile 1989 BMW M3 No affiliation. Just a nice car that I thought I would share.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1177_3):
Originally posted by markseven Nice car, indeed. Hit pretty hard on the driver-side front, which will impact the selling price (no pun intended). Mark where did you see it was hit hard in the front corner? Seller disclosed the damage but I have yet to hear of how hard nor see any photos. I have seen some shops goto great lengths to rebuild an M3 lately so as long as it's been done right I don't think it's gonna dramatically hurt the dollar amount. I think it will reach a respectable level.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1177_5):
Originally posted by markseven Nice car, indeed. Hit pretty hard on the driver-side front, which will impact the selling price (no pun intended). I'm curious. Did you see any photo after it got hit pretty hard? If so, how bad was it?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1177_6):
Originally posted by M-technik-3 Mark where did you see it was hit hard in the front corner? Seller disclosed the damage but I have yet to hear of how hard nor see any photos. I have seen some shops goto great lengths to rebuild an M3 lately so as long as it's been done right I don't think it's gonna dramatically hurt the dollar amount. I think it will reach a respectable level. Greg, from the comments on the BaT auction page. 'JeffHall' claims to be the car's third owner, and '320STW' claims to local to the car and is familiar with it. Interestingly, EAG doesn't want it. Originally posted by BaT Comments EAGBMW @George & AlfaRomeo With several replacement panels this isn’t a M3 for EAG, thus no offer to be made. We pay up for our cars and offer a very streamlined sales experience when the car fits our rigorous standards. Your ad is very well done and transparent, extremely refreshing to see! Best of luck with the sale, the car appears very clean and well sorted. @CharlesM3, regarding the strut tower, it’s not something that can be seen in pictures, I’m just familiar with this car as it was local and I remember when it was repaired. An excellent job was done straightening the frame rail and replacing the strut tower, but if you inspect the car closely you can see that the tower has been cut out and replaced. As I mentioned it was very high quality work and this M3 has a lot going for it with the condition and recent major service work. 320STW @CharlesM3, that’s correct, the hood/fender were replaced along with the driver side strut tower with one removed from a 325i. The car does look great in the ad, salmon over grey leather is a winning combo on any E30. JeffHall Interesting to see this car for sale, again. I’m not sure of the price or the presentation of the car. As I remember the car, when I bought it from TJ, there was more to the repair then just the fenders and hood. I don’t want to screw up anybodies deal but I was surprised when I heard what it sold for last time. I sold the car for two reasons; 1) I am not a collector/car show guy. I drive them and mainly on track. 20 Because of the damage, I believed it would never be a “money car”. I’m glad I was wrong because it is a wonderful car and it looks great! Originally posted by 88Alpine I'm curious. Did you see any photo after it got hit pretty hard? If so, how bad was it? I did not see photos, but according to commenters the driver-side strut tower was replaced and the frame rail needed to be straightened. Clean title though.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1177_7):
Wonder if it was this in depth. Depending on the level of the shop, most would never know. VSR1|Vintage Sports & Restoration, LLC http://www.vsr1.com/index.php?page=restorations VSR1 | Bedford | BMW Repair | BMW Service |

ANSWER 5 (id: 1177_8):
Originally posted by M-technik-3 Wonder if it was this in depth. Depending on the level of the shop, most would never know. http://www.vsr1.com/index.php?page=restorations True. Apparently the work was done in the early nineties, so the patina is probably consistent across the front axle and engine bay. No evidence of invasive bodywork visible to the untrained eye...