QUESTION ID: 2434

QUESTION:
Just picked up a 2008 335i, Customer brought it to my buddies shop they fixed it and the person flaked on a $4k bill. It was sitting for close to 2 years. Them trying to get the person to pay and then a lien sale. Its got 110,xxx miles on it. Its had the HPFP recall and the index 12 injector recall. I was able to scrounge up decent service records for the cars early life. The body is straight, and the N54 is running good. Gotta do some serous engine bay and drive train cleaning. It has a new radiator, first thing maintenance wise is a new water pump and thermostat. These cars are quick, love me some turbo pull going up hills! I was saving up loot for a Kswap in my e30.... took loot out of that pot for this purchase. Ill post some pics, after i get it all cleaned up. JP

ANSWER 1 (id: 2434_2):
n54 cars are high maintenance and require a decent amount of skill to wrench on common problems That's why he had a 4k bill lol GL fun cars w a LOT of potential to make some serious power

ANSWER 2 (id: 2434_3):
Hey, Waiting on some tires that were supposed to show up yesterday. Its up on my lift waiting for its new shoes.... In the mean time ive been going over every inch of the car, the unknown recent service history leads to more poking and proding. I think Ive figured out why they flaked on a $4k bill. It looks like they put a lot of money into it and got frustrated by the $4k bill. It has new brake pads and rotors, The suspension arms have been replaced, whatever hack mechanic who switched them out knarred up the subframe getting the bushing side in, nothing major but fresh scars. Doesn't matter though, I'm getting M3 arms to upgrade them. Its got a new Bosch Battery too. Another "upgrade" im gonna do very soon is switch to e92 M3 style windsheild cowl microfiber filter inlets. The ones on regular e9x are a pain in the ass to move every time you gotta do something in the engine bay, which is going to be often for this car. Anybody know somebody parting out a e92 M3 ? Ill snap a couple picks of the car on the lift and get em uploaded, hopefully the tires show up, so I can mount em and get some glamour shots. Yes, these cars are labor intensive but thats fine, I do my own wrenching. Gonna get it sorted mechanically and then the upgrades are going to start...... JP

ANSWER 3 (id: 2434_4):
oh ya, my one gripe with the car, is the window control location..... I keep reaching toward the center console and then realize, they are on the door like every other boring car in the world.......