QUESTION ID: 520

QUESTION:
For my M Technic… Blaupunkt Bremen SQR 46 DAB Blaupunkt AMP 1604 4 channel amp JL Audio C2-525x 5.25” coaxial speakers (4) Sounds AMAZING!

ANSWER 1 (id: 520_0):
How did you fit those JL’s in the rear pods? I picked up pair and seemed too deep. Put in some Kenwood excelon/ and sound good for price I think…but want to put those JL’s in.

ANSWER 2 (id: 520_1):
Originally posted by gr8skyr How did you fit those JL’s in the rear pods? I picked up pair and seemed too deep. Put in some Kenwood excelon/ and sound good for price I think…but want to put those JL’s in. There's a very slight bulge of the dome tweeter that protrudes from the cover. But it's barely noticable and the performance of these speakers MORE than makes up for it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 520_10):
Originally posted by e30mobber So you replaced the component speakers in the front kick panels with all new coaxial speakers ? Did you unplug the factory OEM crossover door tweeters? Seeing how the JL units you installed have their own built in tweeters ? I assume you Then removed and bypassed the factory amp and installed a blaupunkt inline basically assuming the place of the factory amp? Did you use rca input from the new head unit or did you use speaker HI -inputs directly into the aftermarket amp then run each Individual speaker from the amp output using the factory wiring ? ‘’I’m curious I might do this as well … Yes, we replace the component speakers in the front kick panels and in the back side panels with all new coaxial speakers. No, we didn't unplug the factory OEM crossover door tweeters (LOVE them highs right in front of you face on certain tunes). Yes, we bypassed the factory amp and installed the blaupunkt amp inline and mounted it in the trunk against the back (you can't see it while standing looking at the trunk) and used the RCA inputs from the head unit to the amp and utilized the existing factory wiring from the amp to the speakers. Easy peasy... Added note: The RMS output of the head unit probably would've been adequate for the JL's and their capacity, but I didn't want it to have to work so hard. That's why we went with the amp.

ANSWER 4 (id: 520_11):
Originally posted by Uber///m3 Yes, we replace the component speakers in the front kick panels and in the back side panels with all new coaxial speakers. No, we didn't unplug the factory OEM crossover door tweeters (LOVE them highs right in front of you face on certain tunes). Yes, we bypassed the factory amp and installed the blaupunkt amp inline and mounted it in the trunk against the back (you can't see it while standing looking at the trunk) and used the RCA inputs from the head unit to the amp and utilized the existing factory wiring from the amp to the speakers. Easy peasy... Added note: The RMS output of the head unit probably would've been adequate for the JL's and their capacity, but I didn't want it to have to work so hard. That's why we went with the amp. you have any amp install photos, might just do this myself, Im swapping my oem setup this weekend for new coaxials front/rear. I bypassed the factory amp months ago, but already replaced my head unit. been thinking about running an inline amp in place of the factory one seeing how i just twisted the appropriate pairs together doing the bypass.. id like to amplify the new coaxials.. thanks bro ​​

ANSWER 5 (id: 520_12):
Originally posted by Uber///m3 so you just ran a rca cable from rear of head unit to the amp, then amp in line before each twisted pair of speaker OUTS?, connecting all four channels right> headunit>RCA cables IN>AMP>each channel/speaker OUT> using factory twisted pair wiring ??

ANSWER 6 (id: 520_3):
Originally posted by Andieveryday Are there any step by step manuals for this installation online ? complete noob but want to try this Sorry for the late reply, Andi...just getting back online. I actually hired a professional car audio installer to do the work. And it was worth every penny to make sure it was done correctly with no potential issues with the system later. I've had a LOT of car stereo installs done on several of my cars (both present and past) and I've learned that car audio/video is best left to the professionals.

ANSWER 7 (id: 520_5):
Originally posted by sna77 Any chance you have that in a convertible? Can you read the screen with the top down and sun? Thanks! Yes, it’s a convertible (all M Technics are). This particular unit has a lot of adjustability on the brightness of the display (as well as the color and a few other display-related features), so yes, it’s easy to see with the top down…

ANSWER 8 (id: 520_6):
Thanks! Trying to decide which head unit to go with. 3 possibilities I think—the one you listed, the VDO/Continental one, and a single DIN Porsche classic CarPlay unit. Edit: Just noticed there's a second Blaupunkt unit... Blaupunkt Frankfurt RCM 82 DAB Head Unit https://www.ecstuning.com/b-blaupunk...1020000031~bk/ ​ VDO: https://www.ecstuning.com/b-vdo-part...yABEgI4NfD_BwE Porsche Classic (someone makes a wiring harness to make this work with BMWs): https://www.suncoastparts.com/produc...SABEgIaBPD_BwE

ANSWER 9 (id: 520_7):
Originally posted by sna77 Thanks! Trying to decide which head unit to go with. 3 possibilities I think—the one you listed, the VDO/Continental one, and a single DIN Porsche classic CarPlay unit. Edit: Just noticed there's a second Blaupunkt unit... Blaupunkt Frankfurt RCM 82 DAB Head Unit https://www.ecstuning.com/b-blaupunk...1020000031~bk/ ​ VDO: https://www.ecstuning.com/b-vdo-part...yABEgI4NfD_BwE Porsche Classic (someone makes a wiring harness to make this work with BMWs): https://www.suncoastparts.com/produc...SABEgIaBPD_BwE I've never seen the Porsche Classic but IMHO, it's not going to match the interior of an E30's dash (which was what I was going for with my choice). And for that matter, neither will the VDO unit. But the second Blaupunkt unit will. However, you'll be paying about $150 bucks more for it than the unit I used. And unless there are features in that unit that are important to you, I wouldn't pay the extra money for them. Good luck with your install!

ANSWER 10 (id: 520_9):
So you replaced the component speakers in the front kick panels with all new coaxial speakers ? Did you unplug the factory OEM crossover door tweeters? Seeing how the JL units you installed have their own built in tweeters ? I assume you Then removed and bypassed the factory amp and installed a blaupunkt inline basically assuming the place of the factory amp? Did you use rca input from the new head unit or did you use speaker HI -inputs directly into the aftermarket amp then run each Individual speaker from the amp output using the factory wiring ? ‘’I’m curious I might do this as well …