QUESTION ID: 3063
TOPIC: engine_swap

QUESTION:
Hey, guys, I'm new to the E30 thing but have wanted one for some time, I stumbled upon a car, its a 1986 325, not sure if it's an E or an I, never the less the guy said it has 100,000 original miles and has owned it for a year and a half or so and bought it in new jersey from the original owner and trailered it here, he says it has a stack of receipts from previous maintenance, while I'm new to E30s I'm not totally knowledgeless about them, I'm aware that this is the early model with the U.S spec diving board front bumper which I'm not a fan of especially compared to the later model bumpers, the downsides to the car is it has a dent in the driver side fender and he said there is a whine coming from the center bearing, he said he will take 3 for it and not a penny less. I'm looking for something to kind of daily and turn into a fun canyon car or maybe swap or boost eventually. Here are some pics of it, he said there's no rust on it which was my concern when he said it came from new jersey.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3063_1):
Originally posted by Aleman If it has no rust it's def worth 3. The 325 is basically a 325e. Later years had the 'e' added to the model name. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Good to know I guess, how much slower is that going to be compared to say an 89 325i Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3063_10):
That's a matter of personal opinion. Of the 6 e30s I own (or have owned) not one was a plastic bumper car. Honestly, that car is too nice to pass up, plus the early cars are lighter. FWIW I have 1 prior owner 87 eta with not much more miles than that one and besides a chip and 3.46 diff its bone stock and a lot of fun even with an auto trans. Now that it has 16" wheels, e36 rack and a few other little tweaks, its getting a 731 head with +2 valves and a cam ;)

ANSWER 3 (id: 3063_11):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars That's a matter of personal opinion. Of the 6 e30s I own (or have owned) not one was a plastic bumper car. Honestly, that car is too nice to pass up, plus the early cars are lighter. FWIW I have 1 prior owner 87 eta with not much more miles than that one and besides a chip and 3.46 diff its bone stock and a lot of fun even with an auto trans. Now that it has 16" wheels, e36 rack and a few other little tweaks, its getting a 731 head with +2 valves and a cam ;) Jealous, it is clean, and I'm sure I could make the bumpers look to my liking Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3063_2):
Originally posted by Chaseb124 Good to know I guess, how much slower is that going to be compared to say an 89 325i Noticeably. The E's pull really well off the line and will keep up through first gear, but once the E shifts in to second the I will start pulling away.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3063_3):
Originally posted by YosemiteSam Noticeably. The E's pull really well off the line and will keep up through first gear, but once the E shifts in to second the I will start pulling away. Would a chip on the E put it closer or is it still going to be a night and day thing Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 3063_4):
You're looking at what appears to be an extremely clean 5spd car with claimed low mileage, no rust and some documented history for a very fair price. If you don't jump on it someone else will. Id say go buy it and worry about making a curve carver out of it later. Replace the center bearing and if he cant confirm the last timing belt change do that...then have fun. Personally I think its s steal.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3063_5):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars You're looking at what appears to be an extremely clean 5spd car with claimed low mileage, no rust and some documented history for a very fair price. If you don't jump on it someone else will. Id say go buy it and worry about making a curve carver out of it later. Replace the center bearing and if he cant confirm the last timing belt change do that...then have fun. Personally I think its s steal. Good to know, I appreciate the advice, he's told me he is in no rush to sell it so he's waiting on me, what does that center bearing cost to replace and how big of a pain is it? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 3063_6):
Originally posted by Chaseb124 Good to know, I appreciate the advice, he's told me he is in no rush to sell it so he's waiting on me, what does that center bearing cost to replace and how big of a pain is it? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Its more of a pain to get to than to actually change since you have to drop the exhaust and heat shields. Not much magic to replacing the bearing, but Id try to find a friend with a bit more experience to help you through youre first time. Replace the guibo as well while you have the shaft out. Get a Bentley Manual (that's mandatory). Things to keep in mind are to mark the 2 halves of the shaft with touch up paint so when you put them back together they are in the exact same orientation since they are balanced as a unit. Get new bolts and read about how to preload the bearing before you tighten up the lock ring on the shaft or the bearing wont last. Again, without proof, plan to do the timing belt BEFORE you start carving donuts on your neighbors lawn :-) PS plug the last 7 of your VIN in to realoem.com to see if its a factory 5 speed...and to get proper PNs for anything you need. Then search online for prices. ECStuning.com fcpeuro.com autohausaz.com

ANSWER 9 (id: 3063_7):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Its more of a pain to get to than to actually change since you have to drop the exhaust and heat shields. Not much magic to replacing the bearing, but Id try to find a friend with a bit more experience to help you through youre first time. Replace the guibo as well while you have the shaft out. Get a Bentley Manual (that's mandatory). Things to keep in mind are to mark the 2 halves of the shaft with touch up paint so when you put them back together they are in the exact same orientation since they are balanced as a unit. Get new bolts and read about how to preload the bearing before you tighten up the lock ring on the shaft or the bearing wont last. Again, without proof, plan to do the timing belt BEFORE you start carving donuts on your neighbors lawn :-) Haha fair enough, he said he has a receipt from the timing belt and the old timing belt in the trunk Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 10 (id: 3063_8):
Originally posted by Chaseb124 Haha fair enough, he said he has a receipt from the timing belt and the old timing belt in the trunk Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk then you should be GTG.