QUESTION ID: 3175

QUESTION:
Hey R3VLimited, I just created an account to share an app I made that car enthusiasts may be interested in. It's called Speedr, it measures how much time, or how little time, you save by speeding. Not trying to sell anything, It's free and has no ads. Check it out and let me know your feedback or suggestions for the next version. Play Store / APK Download : https://jakehilborn.github.io/speedr/

ANSWER 1 (id: 3175_0):
So the app knows the speed limit on whatever road you're driving? Interesting idea, pretty cool. This is something I've wondered many times; the cost/benefit of speeding. Between saving time, potential for a ticket, better or worse MPG, what it actually balances out to.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3175_1):
Originally posted by Sh3rpak!ng So the app knows the speed limit on whatever road you're driving? Interesting idea, pretty cool. This is something I've wondered many times; the cost/benefit of speeding. Between saving time, potential for a ticket, better or worse MPG, what it actually balances out to. Yup that's right. It sends your lat/long to a service that has a database of speed limits so it knows the speed limit of the road you're currently on. Adding on to your comment, I'd like to add some fuel consumption calculations in a future version.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3175_10):
Originally posted by Best_name_available You estimate how long and then compare to see how many hours you spent ON THAT ONE DAMN BOLT? :rofl::rofl: Not a bad idea.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3175_12):
I dunno, I'm not a big speeder, I just tend to drive at the flow of traffic - but I usually use google on longer trips, and it seems no matter what I do, google's estimated arrival time/travel time is dead on within minutes, whether I'm consciously speeding or going the speed limit, lol. I think there could be legal ramifications to using such an app too.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3175_13):
Originally posted by nando I think there could be legal ramifications to using such an app too. Unless the purpose of the app is to show actual data proving that speeding doesn't really get you there all that much faster, and/or that the risk (of being ticketed, or worse) isn't worth the reward (of an arrival time a few minutes earlier).

ANSWER 6 (id: 3175_3):
Originally posted by Kershaw Shit, this reminds me I need to get wrenchr developed. It's still in the works. One day... You estimate how long and then compare to see how many hours you spent ON THAT ONE DAMN BOLT?

ANSWER 7 (id: 3175_4):
Originally posted by Best_name_available You estimate how long and then compare to see how many hours you spent ON THAT ONE DAMN BOLT? Takes flat rate book time and compares to how long you actually take... Hmm....may be onto something...

ANSWER 8 (id: 3175_5):
Originally posted by Sh3rpak!ng So the app knows the speed limit on whatever road you're driving? Interesting idea, pretty cool. This is something I've wondered many times; the cost/benefit of speeding. Between saving time, potential for a ticket, better or worse MPG, what it actually balances out to. Mild speeding certainly does add up time saved. Up here in Ontario, you can usually get away with 10km/h over speed limit without getting dinged in most situations. I keep it to 5 or less in reduced speed zones, especially school zones. Highway, you can push 15-20 km/h over, depending on the situation and traffic flow. Personally, I find my Eta's fuel economy sweet spot is around 95-100 km/h, , but I'll speed up in heavier traffic to keep up with flow. I hate having to excessively speed, unless I'm REALLY late. I always build in extra time for travel, so I don't get screwed. I just downloaded the app, and will give it a spin on my way home.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3175_6):
Originally posted by Best_name_available You estimate how long and then compare to see how many hours you spent ON THAT ONE DAMN BOLT? hahahaha Originally posted by estoguy Personally, I find my Eta's fuel economy sweet spot is around 95-100 km/h, , but I'll speed up in heavier traffic to keep up with flow. I hate having to excessively speed, unless I'm REALLY late. I always build in extra time for travel, so I don't get screwed. I just downloaded the app, and will give it a spin on my way home. That's a good point. If you're not saving much time speeding then it's not worth the extra fuel. I'd like to add fuel usage estimates in a future version. Thanks for downloading, let me know if you have any suggestions.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3175_7):
Interesting app. Not so sure I'd want to encourage people to speed. As someone who struggles with speed limits, I've found that speeding does little in actually getting me somewhere sooner, mostly due to traffic lights and stop signs,. It also depends on how much traffic there is. For example, between where I live, and the coastline, there is a long, straight section of road. One lane each way, for much of it, 55mph speed limit which almost no one follows. It's a boring drive, and I get impatient. So I pass people, and speed off. Thing is, after this straight, traffic tends to slow down a bit, and often times I see the people that I thought I left far behind just a few car lengths behind me. Despite my faster pace, we've still ended up at, give or take, the same place at the same time. I still pass slower traffic, but only for my own sanity. If your trip is all highway, it'll probably make a bigger difference, but otherwise, I think you're fooling yourself into thinking you're making much better time by speeding.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3175_9):
Originally posted by agent I can see how this would be valuable for longer trips. I may have a 6+ hour drive coming up soon where I could check it out. Before your trip be sure to sign up for a HERE account in the settings of the app to get the most accurate stats. You'll get more accurate speed limits and have better speed limit coverage.