QUESTION ID: 1652

QUESTION:
So can someone tell me why there are no aftermarket e30 hardtops? Not that I can find anyway. This seems to be a no-brainer, considering hardtops are rare as hens teeth, as my grandpa used to say. Find a decent original, strip it to the fibreglass shell, then use the shell as a plug, then use the plug to make a mold then produce a new shell. The fittings are another matter, but not an insurmountable one that I can tell. I'm sure this is not a new idea. Do tell. Thanks fellas.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1652_10):
Oh that's awful lol. 7,000 Euros for a top that will craze if the car isn't a garage queen, and will get scratched up if you aren't extremely careful washing and handling it. I guess UV exposure is pretty low in most of europe but that that thing wouldn't look good for more than a couple of years here.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1652_11):
Originally posted by varg Oh that's awful lol. 7,000 Euros for a top that will craze if the car isn't a garage queen, and will get scratched up if you aren't extremely careful washing and handling it. I guess UV exposure is pretty low in most of europe but that that thing wouldn't look good for more than a couple of years here. Modern headlights are made of polycarbonate too. They cost thousands to replace, but car buyers love extraordinary lights. They don't like simple round glass headlights that last forever. Problems usually happen with hard coatings that prevent scratches and yellowing. I guess you can apply a protection film and replace it after a few years.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1652_3):
Originally posted by ooeybc This seems to be a no-brainer, considering hardtops are rare as hens teeth, as my grandpa used to say. Find a decent original, strip it to the fibreglass shell, then use the shell as a plug, then use the plug to make a mold then produce a new shell. I guess it's not so easy. A car part manufacturer must certify its product for safety. Even then, somebody may sue after a crash saying that the hardtop didn't provide good protection.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1652_5):
Originally posted by ooeybc So can someone tell me why there are no aftermarket e30 hardtops? Not that I can find anyway. there were more aftermarket options when the car was still in production. now with it 30+yrs out of production there isn't enough market to make it pay unless you are in the high end where the buyers don't even consider price. mfgrs wouldn't recover the costs of making one now.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1652_8):
Originally posted by ooeybc So can someone tell me why there are no aftermarket e30 hardtops? I’m a fairly new cabrio owner and have the same complaint. I balked at the first few I found for $3k+. Now, the ones I’m seeing are in $4-5k. I’m the close to going to one of the boat builders near me to have one custom fab’ed.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1652_9):
Originally posted by varg That glass hardtop is wild, custom glass is extremely expensive. That thing must be really heavy too, either that or horribly fragile. The glass is transparent plastic. Check here: E30_PUNISHER on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/p/DHRdyLeNg1I/ 185 likes, 14 comments - e30_mdgarage on March 16, 2025 Certainly, plastic won't age well.