QUESTION ID: 14

QUESTION:
I purchased new headers from Ireland Engineering. https://www.iemotorsport.com/product...g-headers-m20/ Description clearly states the following: #1".....fabricated from 304 stainless steel using GTAW weld process and back-purged" and #2 "They come with stainless steel V-band clamps and additional weld on flanges. You will need to fabricate your own down-pipes." #2 above: V band clamps or flanges were not included in the package, the reason why is still unknown #1 above is being the major issue. I used my borescope to inspect those welds internally and found that they weren't back purged properly during welding, visible sugaring and weld penetration issues. Furthermore, some sections in the circumference of the joint are totally missing weld penetration. Please refer to attached pictures and make your own concussions. If you aren't sure about back purging and how the weld should look internally, this video is a good example and shows the difference clearly https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F2T1diKBcYI

ANSWER 1 (id: 14_0):
Provided these pictures to IE in the attempt to possibly help to address the manufacturing issue and correct their process....little did I know My communication with Andrew Athorum of Ireland Engineering: ​​​​​​Me: Andrew, I received my order today. Thank you. However there is a problem: Your description of headers states the following: "They come with stainless steel V-band clamps and additional weld on flanges.” Both V bands and flanges are missing from this shipment. (2 v bands and 2 flanges are missing). Please advise. Me: Andrew, To add to my previous email with missing parts…after further inspection, the following was discovered: I ran my borescope to inspect welds and found that you welder failed to properly back purge the tubing (a lot of weld are sugared). Also it looks like TIG settings weren’t properly selected which resulted in poor joint penetration (see attached pictures). I recommend to discuss it with your manufacturer and improve the quality control. In the mean time, can you please email me a return label so I can ship these headers back promptly? Thank you​​​​​​ Response from Andrew: If you wish to return them that is fine but you will have to pay the return shipping yourself. Me: wish I don’t have to return them, obviously. Could we agree that they are defective and not properly welded and that you need to correct your manufacturing process or you believe this is normal and that’s how they are meant to be?​​​​​​ Response from Andrew: We believe it to be normal. Headers are going back to IE come Monday. Looks like the whole ordeal will end up costing ~$70 for lost shipping .... A few of you asked me about my feedback on these.....Hope you find it helpful.

ANSWER 2 (id: 14_1):
That sucks man. It’s a shame they don’t see anything wrong with that, either. For your sake I’m hoping it doesn’t cost $70 to ship out- for heavily discounted rates use BikeFlights for UPS or PirateShip for USPS.

ANSWER 3 (id: 14_11):
Originally posted by 02tradition zaq123 Can you explain why CJP is absolutely necessary in this instance? Why is PJP unacceptable in your opinion? YMMV...Butt pjp with austenitic 304 in high fatigue and vibration applications??? IMHO, pjp all day if it’s a slip joint design like Federicos RD. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 14_12):
Originally posted by zaq123 YMMV...Butt pjp with austenitic 304 in high fatigue and vibration applications??? IMHO, pjp all day if it’s a slip joint design like Federicos RD. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Are you a welder or something?

ANSWER 5 (id: 14_2):
Just to compare to Federico's Racing Dynamic headers: ugly welds but robust construction, (tubing almost twice as thick as IE reproduction), 409 stainless (which can rust unless coated). All weld joints ale overlapped

ANSWER 6 (id: 14_3):
So far my dealing with IE was ........... I mentioned to them that my review of these headers will be shared with E30 community. IE promptly responded with a possibility of restoring fees upon their "returned item inspection".....they are completely ignoring the fact that the item was missing parts and the fault lies with IE..... even if those unacceptable welds are done to their " acceptable standard" . I'm yet to hear words like "sorry for the inconvenience" or "can we send you a replacement to make it right" or..... Don't they say,....it is easy to be nice when everything is easy.....once there is an issue, true colors are showing

ANSWER 7 (id: 14_4):
Originally posted by zaq123 Provided these pictures to IE in the attempt to possibly help to address the manufacturing issue and correct their process....little did I know My communication with Andrew Athorum of Ireland Engineering: ​​​​​​Me: Andrew, I received my order today. Thank you. However there is a problem: Your description of headers states the following: "They come with stainless steel V-band clamps and additional weld on flanges.” Both V bands and flanges are missing from this shipment. (2 v bands and 2 flanges are missing). Please advise. Me: Andrew, To add to my previous email with missing parts…after further inspection, the following was discovered: I ran my borescope to inspect welds and found that you welder failed to properly back purge the tubing (a lot of weld are sugared). Also it looks like TIG settings weren’t properly selected which resulted in poor joint penetration (see attached pictures). I recommend to discuss it with your manufacturer and improve the quality control. In the mean time, can you please email me a return label so I can ship these headers back promptly? Thank you​​​​​​ Response from Andrew: If you wish to return them that is fine but you will have to pay the return shipping yourself. Me: wish I don’t have to return them, obviously. Could we agree that they are defective and not properly welded and that you need to correct your manufacturing process or you believe this is normal and that’s how they are meant to be?​​​​​​ Response from Andrew: We believe it to be normal. Headers are going back to IE come Monday. Looks like the whole ordeal will end up costing ~$70 for lost shipping .... A few of you asked me about my feedback on these.....Hope you find it helpful. I was considering ordering their M30 headers for my swap but I might just get schniedermann after this.

ANSWER 8 (id: 14_5):
Originally posted by Slybeanx I was considering ordering their M30 headers for my swap but I might just get schniedermann after this. There was a set of RD headers from the last group buy for sale somewhere. Put level of IE customer service and missing parts aside, my biggest concern with their headers is the future unavoidable weld cracking down the road when foil thick bead will finally give out. Considering trouble in takes to fabricate down pipes etc for these....I didn't even want to keep these as a test subject. Unfortunately, IE doesn't want to acknowledge the issue and improve their manufacturing What is a shame!

ANSWER 9 (id: 14_6):
But they looked great on Instagram. That's a big bummer coming from IE. Thought they were more of a stand-up company. Sad.... Appreciate the feedback man.

ANSWER 10 (id: 14_8):
Originally posted by RobE30 But they looked great on Instagram. That's why I got them, welds looked ok in the pic. Knowing the importance of back purging the stainless tubing, I decided to inspect those welds from the inside.....after all IE does use word "back purged welds" in the item description....Well not only those welds don't look back purged, they don't look like welds are fully penetrate those joints. Look at this video .....you can fast forward to 15:20 if you don't have time. This video is a good example what properly penetrated and back purged welds should look like https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F2T1diKBcYI