QUESTION ID: 1400

QUESTION:
Before I spend $40 on two plastic caps the size of a thimble... I have a leak at times at the corner of the top of the side windows and rubber seal of the top. I got a new top and a new front seal. But those caps are missing on my pins. Do you think that with out those caps the top is moving ever so slightly while driving and allowing the leaks?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1400_1):
yes, My hardtop had the pins (plastic end missing and I would hear it clunk around while driving, I finally found a pair off of one of my parts car and the issue had since went away. I would say they do help guide the front of top to its place. if its throw off 1/8 inch I would believe the front seal does not have a lot of tension to keep the water out.. My .2 cents.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1400_10):
I would say also alignment and condition of top made a big difference. The frame but also how the front seal was installed or condition of front seals. My first vert had cheaper top on it. man I could not get the thing to seal up. always had issues with water getting in. Then I got another bmw e30, all original top, not broken and alignment was done correctly. front main seal was installed and seated correctly with the front alignment pins and I rarely have any issues. I've since replaced and change the top for brand new one with new front main seals but alignment is definitely key

ANSWER 3 (id: 1400_11):
Originally posted by JasonC Nice good soaking rain. Leak is the same... Could you post of picture of the windshield area and front main seal top location. Also post a picture of the latches. I've had really worn out ones on my first e30 from not being aligned correctly. I will get you few pictures to show you what I am looking for, After Christmas, Cheers

ANSWER 4 (id: 1400_12):
I got a new top ($400 eBay one, and new front seal that is a BMW piece). I have noticed with my latches that when closing the top, it will come down 1/8" more before latched all the way. Now the odd thing is, it will stay closed all winter and not leak. But when I start putting the top up and down I'll have the leak. I'll take pictures and a pic of exactly where the leak it. It's not like it's a waterfall but a slow drip.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1400_13):
plastic caps Hey does anyone have a picture showing the pins or the caps? I would like to know what your talking about so I can check mine as it leaks in the same spot, however iam not understanding what you guys are referring to. can you still order these caps from the dealer? part# thanks, Geoff.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1400_2):
so just to be sure, you are talking about the two pins that locate the hard top to the body behind the front doors? the plastic insert in the receptacle that the pin locks into is important for keeping the top from rattling around as fight4life said. i don't think it will help out too much with leaks though because the cam on the pin contacts the metal at the bottom of the receptacle. if you look close at the inside of your hard top, there is a screw adjustment at the top of your pin. try tightening this up a thread or two. also, it might be a good idea to pull out the back seat, and all 4 interior panels so you can re align all of your windows. this job is a pain and will probably take you about 3 hours, but it really helped keep my interior dry and it quieted the hi way speed wind noise.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1400_3):
No this is the soft top and two metal pins that go in ontop of the windshield frame, they have a plastic cap that goes over them. I probably answered my own question when saying it maybe moving slightly while moving down the road.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1400_4):
Late to the party but one of my plastic covers for the right side pin broke early on and it started leaking. I think I paid $9 for the plastic cap a few years ago and it did indeed stop the leak even though i seriously had my doubts it would.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1400_5):
Way back when I had a vert mine were missing, bought em and the top stopped shaking to a degree but still had minor leaks but they were less than they had been. They are there for a reason.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1400_9):
I've moved my top as far forward as it can go, applied gummi pflege on the seals, tightened the screws holding the top release mechanisms in, later replaced those when one went bad (the new ones have their centering pin caps intact). I use raggtopp so water hopefully beads off and I have a giant beach towel which I fold up and place on the bolster so water drips onto it rather than the seat, as I have cloth sport seats. I change out the towel after a heavy rain storm. I haven't gotten to adjusting the window yet, but I did notice that opening and closing the door secures a better seal form the window to the top than rolling the window down. Ie if you're at the drivethru in the rain, open your door and put your towel on your lap I have a second car now so it's not as much of an annoyance while driving. The research I've done has led to the following: This was bmw's first convertible since the 50's so I chalk it up to a growing pain design fault - you'll notice how the e36 is designed differently where the top, windshield, and window all meet