QUESTION ID: 440

QUESTION:
My car did not come with this feature, even though it's a 1987 with early tail lights. If I add this cover, is it a plug and play and will simply work with no issues? Will this compartment luggage light simply turn on when I open my trunk lid and simply turn off automatically when I close my trunk lid? Will it cause any additional drain to my car battery? 2 Photos of the tail light cover I am referencing Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 440_0):
Plug and play. It is not a separate trunk light. The extra window allows the parking light bulb to light up the trunk area as well as the tail light so the light switch must be on for you take advantage of the extra light. It's a great idea. 84-85 models had it...not sure why BMW did away with it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 440_1):
Hello - I have seen and upgraded several of these- reelizmpro is correct.​ It is not 'technically' a trunk light, and does not go on and off with the trunk lid opening and closing. It is simply a port or opening in the 'shell' that carries the rear bulbs. It has a thin translucent piece of plastic sheet which allows the tail light bulbs to shed some light into the trunk when they are on. It has no switch other than the headlight switch. I have referred to is as the 'Trunk Light Feature' in the past, for want of a better name only. I have no idea what BMW calls it. Upgrades are possible for this and all other E30 rear lights, by adding a second tail and / or brake light bulb (filament) for double the size, and triple the output of these two light functions... SAFELY. Reply or message me if you need anything like this to help keep the idiots aware of your presence, and off your tail! I also have a limited numbers of good tail light lenses if you need one... early and late designs. All work is done with copper wire, factory parts, and soldered connections, and is guaranteed. Have a great day on the road, and "Keep the rubber side down." Andy

ANSWER 3 (id: 440_3):
Originally posted by brutus for all that reading,,, yes I've got a couple of pairs of these for sale, thanks ! Brutus, are these still in your possession?