QUESTION ID: 2972

QUESTION:
Salutations to all, I've been thinking about bringing my e30 back with me to Canada the next time I go to Europe. Anyone have any experience shipping from Europe to North America? Costs, shipping companies, do's & don'ts. Any help is appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2972_0):
I've used NMT for RoRo shipping 3 times with good results, but only to USA. Cost varied from $900 to $1200 or so depending on options/routes/dates/ports. Prep the car for shipping, clean it up, especially the undercarriage for organic material, make sure it doesn't have any cargo that's not supposed to be part of the car. Clearly you should research the paperwork requirements on both ends, but if you already own the car it should be easier.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2972_1):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I've used NMT for RoRo shipping 3 times with good results, but only to USA. Cost varied from $900 to $1200 or so depending on options/routes/dates/ports. Prep the car for shipping, clean it up, especially the undercarriage for organic material, make sure it doesn't have any cargo that's not supposed to be part of the car. Clearly you should research the paperwork requirements on both ends, but if you already own the car it should be easier. Thanks for the info, I see they have ports in the country of origin. I'll email to get more info. I've owned the car for almost 10 years now. It's my vacation fun car but I'm spending less and less time in Europe and it would be fun to have it here in Canada with me. I'm checking the requirements but i'm not getting clear information. It's an '89 IS with no cat from the factory but I'm being told that's not possible. Go figure.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2972_2):
Calling Roadrunner and Shockwave... Paul and Lindsay can definitely help you out with info on this. They recently imported an E30 touring from Europe to Ontario.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2972_3):
Originally posted by Powling Calling Roadrunner and Shockwave... Paul and Lindsay can definitely help you out with info on this. They recently imported an E30 touring from Europe to Ontario. Great, it would be extremely helpful to talk to someone local. On an aside. I know it's not the time of year for it but is there a local E30/Classic BMW scene ?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2972_4):
Originally posted by spanish pants Great, it would be extremely helpful to talk to someone local. On an aside. I know it's not the time of year for it but is there a local E30/Classic BMW scene ? Search facebook for Ontario E30's and BMW GTA Classic. Both groups are really active and we organize cruises and meets in the summertime.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2972_5):
Originally posted by Powling Calling Roadrunner and Shockwave... Paul and Lindsay can definitely help you out with info on this. They recently imported an E30 touring from Europe to Ontario. Originally posted by spanish pants Great, it would be extremely helpful to talk to someone local. On an aside. I know it's not the time of year for it but is there a local E30/Classic BMW scene ? I'd highly recommend contacting Will Zaraska: willz.ca. He's based in Toronto and has associates in Europe to handle everything on that side (getting the car to the port, completing all the paperwork, etc). They helped us with every step of the process to import my car from Germany. Definitely join the Ontario E30s group and bring your E30 to the next meet!

ANSWER 7 (id: 2972_6):
Originally posted by Powling Search facebook for Ontario E30's and BMW GTA Classic. Both groups are really active and we organize cruises and meets in the summertime. Great, but I'll wait until I have the e30 here before joining. I don't think I could show up at a meet riding my Metropass Originally posted by Roadrunner I'd highly recommend contacting Will Zaraska: willz.ca. He's based in Toronto and has associates in Europe to handle everything on that side (getting the car to the port, completing all the paperwork, etc). They helped us with every step of the process to import my car from Germany. Definitely join the Ontario E30s group and bring your E30 to the next meet! Thanks for the info. I'll give these guys a ring and see what happens. I'll be back there for 3 months, hopefully it's enough time to get the car repainted and get it on a boat.