QUESTION ID: 2341

QUESTION:
Been a hot 12 years since I've been on this board. Questions: Is rob still around? Is jordan dead or in jail? Is blunt dead or in jail? What happened to eurowerks in the midwest/mn? I have my e30 m3 exhaust I need to give to someone who wants it. Also can a mod get me back into my old account somehow? equate975 was my username. That email is long gone now. I can probably dig up some old photos or some way to verify it's still me. Sold my e30 m3 last year though. Coming back into the e30 game soon here. Edit: I still have this beat to shit plate. Does that count as verification? Just found it in my garage earlier today https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=72456 Hell I can post a pic of it in that exact same spot.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2341_1):
Yeah so TTT. Fucking, my equate975 gmail exists, but gmail claims it doesn't, but if you try to register it, it comes back as in use. So after digging through fucking cell phone piles god 15 years ago. I'm not super interested in trying to even figure out if I even know how the fuck I set my r3vlimited account up. TLDR; Can't find blunts cell #. Needed. Where the fuck is Jordan when you need him. Edit: verify me asshats. https://www.bimmerforums.com/forum/s...03#post9310903 I can turn that number back on anytime.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2341_2):
Originally posted by captaintofuburger Yeah so TTT. Fucking, my equate975 gmail exists, but gmail claims it doesn't, but if you try to register it, it comes back as in use. So after digging through fucking cell phone piles god 15 years ago. I'm not super interested in trying to even figure out if I even know how the fuck I set my r3vlimited account up. TLDR; Can't find blunts cell #. Needed. Where the fuck is Jordan when you need him. Edit: verify me asshats. https://www.bimmerforums.com/forum/s...03#post9310903 I can turn that number back on anytime. same thing happened with my old hotmail, now I’ve lost hundreds of songs on iTunes and those Geniuses can’t do anything to help me.... Theres a few mods left (myself included) but our powers are pretty limited. Maybe nando can help.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2341_3):
Originally posted by 2mAn same thing happened with my old hotmail, now I’ve lost hundreds of songs on iTunes and those Geniuses can’t do anything to help me.... Theres a few mods left (myself included) but our powers are pretty limited. Maybe nando can help. Nando was, jordan, stereo1 was around, ummm trying to think of circa 2005 era. Mtechnik? maybe that was another forum. edit: yeah I'm just looking at newer posts and I don't see anyone old. McGyver I sorta remember but that's about it. And whats his nuts who was blind and albino or whatever. Edit 2: e30austin maybe, only because of Joe Funk, he was in Winona MN when I met up with him, but hes PNW. Guy drove an e30 with a bad wheel bearing to help me with m swap, and I asked if he checked the lug bolts..... which were half all unthreaded. That's a real danger road to take from Winona to Rochester, twisties the whole way.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2341_4):
StereoInstaller?... Luke... lol he disappeared after taking on more orders than he could fill and suddenly he’s MIA. Austin is still around, has a M3 now do you still have an E30?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2341_5):
you're coming on a bit strong... I barely remember your username, lol. Anyway, I think you need an "admin" to fix this. I can see everything in the control panel, but I can't edit people's profiles or reset anything. I did chat with James about the forum at the E30picnic, and hopefully we'll make some progress there.