QUESTION ID: 2299

QUESTION:
Hi guys, I have decided that I’m going to go with a low boost turbo set up. I’m thinking 8-10lbs will get me into the 220-250hp range with a stock motor other then a 272 cam. I’m pretty set on getting the cxracing turbo kit since I’m on a budget and replacing the turbo with one that has an internal waistgate. Dose anyone have experience with this kit? Or could I build a cheaper set up piecing it together myself. Also should I just go with a $800 eBay turbo kit and just replace the turbo on that? Please give me any suggestions.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2299_0):
You might save some money in shipping on a kit like that, but you're also going to get a lot of junk you won't use, or will replace/want to replace soon after you get it up and running. Post a link to the kit you are looking at. Usually they don't come with an ECU or injectors, and I'd recommend getting the ECU first, installing it (with or without the new injectors) and working out any bugs with your wiring before you add the turbo into the equation.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2299_1):
Originally posted by Northern You might save some money in shipping on a kit like that, but you're also going to get a lot of junk you won't use, or will replace/want to replace soon after you get it up and running. Post a link to the kit you are looking at. Usually they don't come with an ECU or injectors, and I'd recommend getting the ECU first, installing it (with or without the new injectors) and working out any bugs with your wiring before you add the turbo into the equation. I looked more into the kit and realized I needed to remove the a/c to run it. Being in Florida there is no way I can drive this car without a/c. So do you have any recommendations on a low boost kit with a/c or maybe a list of all parts that can get me started. I was shooting for 8-10 lbs of boost with a turbo that has an internal waist gate.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2299_2):
Not sure something exists that you'll be completely happy with. You might find you need to modify your AC lines to fit it all in. The m20 AC lines go very close to the oem exhaust manfiold. its not surprising they get in the way of a turbo. or pending manifold/turbo size/design you might need to mount your AC compressor lower to get it out of the way. I put a sanden compressor on my m20 with a DIY bracket. its a way smaller compressor and the bracket mounts it significantly lower. Might make enough room for a turbo. ive not tried. Remember there is a good reason a turbo kit on ebay is 800bucks, and a high quality turbo manifold on its own might also be 800bucks... you might as well buy a megasquirt and some injectors and figure out how to tune it NA before you add any turbo things. Could be a at least a few months of fun there. youll need a wideband as well.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2299_3):
That's a lot of extra effort. I have a stock AC system on my turbo E30. The charge piping running down past the compressor is tight but it's easily replicable and would have more clearance if you used a custom pipe with a bend in it. I can't weld aluminum so I used all off the shelf hoses and pipes. All the parts I used are easy to see in my build thread. My biggest issue is the lack of a condenser fan due to my huge intercooler, but I'm not running low boost with modest goals.