QUESTION ID: 481

QUESTION:
Curious if anyone knows the volume of the kick panel that the front midrange speakers sit in? I've done some blunt measurements and it looks to be around 15" tall x 6" wide x 3" deep, however clearly it could be pretty different than this, especially if it actually opens up into the rockers or something like that. Has anyone ever accurately measured this?

ANSWER 1 (id: 481_3):
There's alot of wiring in there, not to mention the lighting delay module. Flow through to the air cavity along the rockers is restricted as a result. You could certainly put a driver with known parameters in the kick panel, do a freq sweep and then back into a calculated volume that way. It would at least point you in the right direction. Or just get investigate an underseat or trunk sub. Looks like sna77 has a pass footwell shallow sub setup to check out too.

ANSWER 2 (id: 481_4):
Thanks for the input! I'm not trying to get insane with it, just trying to use WinISD to calculate what speaker will give me the best low end extension. There are a few that are looking good with the assumed 0.1 cubic foot volume I'm plugging in, so maybe I'll just buy them and see how they perform and as you suggest, make some assumptions about enclosure volume based upon their output compared to WinISD's suggestions.

ANSWER 3 (id: 481_5):
Originally posted by dadsbmw Thanks for the input! I'm not trying to get insane with it, just trying to use WinISD to calculate what speaker will give me the best low end extension. There are a few that are looking good with the assumed 0.1 cubic foot volume I'm plugging in, so maybe I'll just buy them and see how they perform and as you suggest, make some assumptions about enclosure volume based upon their output compared to WinISD's suggestions. I didn’t measure but it’s definitely shallow back there… I went with Audio Development with neodymium magnets to accommodate the shallow space to fit them... - T100 tweeters - W50 front midrange 5 1/4 - W500NEO rear 4"​ then as mentioned above, shallow footwell sub. Amazing setup. Almost complete.

ANSWER 4 (id: 481_6):
Originally posted by sna77 I didn’t measure but it’s definitely shallow back there… I went with Audio Development with neodymium magnets to accommodate the shallow space to fit them... - T100 tweeters - W50 front midrange 5 1/4 - W500NEO rear 4"​ then as mentioned above, shallow footwell sub. Amazing setup. Almost complete. Interesting midrange. It's transfer function magnitude is awesome! Reaches down super low, which is exactly what I look for. Unfortunately when you equate it out to SPL it's a pretty quiet speaker overall. I'm also very skeptical of it's claimed 16mm xmax... that's subwoofer territory. Do you know what it's RMS power handling is? Mounting depth?

ANSWER 5 (id: 481_7):
Originally posted by dadsbmw Interesting midrange. It's transfer function magnitude is awesome! Reaches down super low, which is exactly what I look for. Unfortunately when you equate it out to SPL it's a pretty quiet speaker overall. I'm also very skeptical of it's claimed 16mm xmax... that's subwoofer territory. Do you know what it's RMS power handling is? Mounting depth? My trusted car stereo shop, www.sound-in-motion.com has been using AD for custom work for years. They love the products for situations where Focals won't fit. The PDF of the specs is in this link, and the W50 dimensions are on there: https://www.audioexcellent.com/_files/ugd/cc2f70_6d8d22f2074f43939710a3b12ef43bbf.pdf They've already mounted it, so I can't hand measure unfortunately. I stopped by for a sound tune the other day, and the system sounds incredible. Very clean page 15: This site (in Italian) shows the power handling at 60W RMS: AD Audio Development W50 | Altoparlanti - Woofer e Midwoofer https://www.rgsound.it/w50_ad-audio-development-id-17235.html Leggi la scheda prodotto AD Audio Development W50 | Altoparlanti - Woofer e Midwoofer

ANSWER 6 (id: 481_8):
Originally posted by dadsbmw Interesting midrange. It's transfer function magnitude is awesome! Reaches down super low, which is exactly what I look for. Unfortunately when you equate it out to SPL it's a pretty quiet speaker overall. I'm also very skeptical of it's claimed 16mm xmax... that's subwoofer territory. Do you know what it's RMS power handling is? Mounting depth? Here's my full build btw, showing subwoofer etc: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-technical-forums/car-audio-electronics/10113602-winter-2024-projects-1992-convertible-interior-build-thread-mostly-ice