QUESTION ID: 3207

QUESTION:
I have one of the ECS scan tools. I have used it on a variety of BMW's with varying degrees of success. The other day I plugged it into my ix when I was trying to diagnose a stumble on throttle. To get engine data the car had to be running but with the tool plugged in, the car would crank but not start. I unplugged the tool, started the car then plugged the tool back in. The car misfired and the tool got fried. It does not display anything on any cars now. Has anyone else used these?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3207_0):
That sounds like a problem with the car and not the scanner. I'm assuming the car will still crank and start? Also, which connector do you have/where is it?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3207_1):
Unless it was an ADS cable, it wasn't going to be of any use for your ix anyway. OBD cables do not work on BMWs before 1996. And even if you could make it work, the diagnostics ability of Motronic 1.3 is so crude it wouldn't be all that helpful.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3207_2):
They have a 20 pin adapter that plugs into the diagnostic port under the hood. It can supposedly read engine parameters, reset service light etc. The car starts and runs. It is my daily driver, just trying to diagnose a stumble when applying throttle from idle. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3207_3):
Are you talking about the momentary stumble, the dip in rpm, when you hit the throttle from idle? And then it revs normally after that? That's normal. It's due to the AFM design. If you want to get away from it you have to switch to another engine management, like megasquirt, and then use a MAP based tune.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3207_4):
FWIW, my car when stock never had that "lag". I think it could be a combo of worn tracks inside the AFM, vacuum leaks, and an old O2 sensor. Also a misadjusted TPS. I have driven E30s with it and there is a big difference. Originally posted by dave.a.cote They have a 20 pin adapter that plugs into the diagnostic port under the hood. It can supposedly read engine parameters, reset service light etc. The car starts and runs. It is my daily driver, just trying to diagnose a stumble when applying throttle from idle. That doesn't matter. It's an ADS interface. only an RS232 ADS cable can talk to it. a K-Line or D-CAN cable won't work.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3207_5):
Your car must be a unicorn. Every stock e30 I've ever driven (dozens at this point) had it, but with varying degrees. I've read stories of e30s coming out of the factory like that and giving the technicians at dealerships a headache when people complained. In the end it was chalked up to "that's how the car is" because they couldn't fix it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3207_6):
Originally posted by nando That doesn't matter. It's an ADS interface. only an RS232 ADS cable can talk to it. a K-Line or D-CAN cable won't work. Just to be clear, you are saying that this thing would ever work with an m20? I bought it because ECS says it does. As for the stumble it is annoying. I run megasquirt in my m50 and I think the thing I like best about it is the snap of the throttle. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 3207_7):
Unless its a true RS232 ADS interface, no it will never work on an E30 (or any BMW before 1996 really, and even late E36s require ADS for several modules).