QUESTION ID: 2591

QUESTION:
What type of cheap easy overlooked stuff can be done will you have time . As some can’t break the wallet . Suggestions? I’ve had mine for about a year so I’m finding missing broken stuff here and there .

ANSWER 1 (id: 2591_0):
paint/touch-up all the black trim. super deep clean the interior including pulling the seats out. detail the engine bay. rebuild/readjust your ebrakes. change your spark plugs, air filter, and oil. check your roof drains. replace broken door panel clips. replace tail light gaskets.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2591_10):
Originally posted by straight6pwr paint/touch-up all the black trim. super deep clean the interior including pulling the seats out. detail the engine bay. rebuild/readjust your ebrakes. change your spark plugs, air filter, and oil. check your roof drains. replace broken door panel clips. replace tail light gaskets. Is it just the 2 drains that drain to the front wheels or is there one for the rear? I get water in my spare tire jack . But I’m thinking that maybe the tail light gasket ive completed some of the missing items under the hood . Missing headlight covers plus all associated clips . Subframe rear exhaust hanger and rubber that was missing . I put on some rear headrests I had from my extra trash seats .

ANSWER 3 (id: 2591_11):
Originally posted by prisonerofdoom83 Is it just the 2 drains that drain to the front wheels or is there one for the rear? I get water in my spare tire jack . But I’m thinking that maybe the tail light gasket ive completed some of the missing items under the hood . Missing headlight covers plus all associated clips . Subframe rear exhaust hanger and rubber that was missing . I put on some rear headrests I had from my extra trash seats . There's two tubes going from the sunroof down to the sides of the trunk

ANSWER 4 (id: 2591_12):
Looking at re-installing power steering right now and rebuilding the front end. I've already detailed it like 3 times and need to address a few small nagging issues.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2591_13):
Throttle pedal bushings is one that is cheap, easy, and makes a hell of a difference. Throw in a new cable too and your pants will be soiled upon first stomp to the floor. Hood adjustment is free and relatively easy. My car came with every body panel misaligned, but the hood was really bad. There's a video on youtube of a guy doing it and it really makes a huge difference in the look of the front end (if yours is currently misaligned). Check your bulbs. All of them. HVAC panel bulbs are often overlooked. There's even one in the rear ashtray. If you are in need of a valve cover gasket, do a valve adjustment (free, assuming you have feeler gauges and 10mm wrench) and the gasket in a couple hours. Gaskets are relatively cheap. The door clips suggestion is a really good one. If you haven't already, buy a bunch of them to have as spares when you need them. Between the E30 and E39, I go through quite a few of these regularly. Check all your suspension bolts and make sure they are tight. Torque them to spec and if you're really hardcore, get some torque seal and mark them all so you'll know they are tight in the future. Exhaust gaskets are cheap, but can be the worst PITA of anything on the car. I hate the sound of exhaust leaks, but yours may not be leaking. Spray some soapy water on each joint and see if they bubble. If not, forget this suggestion.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2591_4):
Originally posted by flyboyx i'm thinking about adding a lubed up masturbation sleeve to the tailpipe. my fleshlight barely fits... but she loves it! sent from hell using tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 2591_5):
I've been giving everything a really good clean, or sand and repaint - especially areas like the wheel wells. It's not super fun work, but it's satisfying (and cheap!)

ANSWER 8 (id: 2591_7):
Thinking of rebuilding (new batteries) for an old Si board that failed in my e30. Would be a great chance to learn how to solder and use a glue gun as well. e30 related arts and crafts are always fun!

ANSWER 9 (id: 2591_8):
Originally posted by straight6pwr paint/touch-up all the black trim. super deep clean the interior including pulling the seats out. detail the engine bay. rebuild/readjust your ebrakes. change your spark plugs, air filter, and oil. check your roof drains. replace broken door panel clips. replace tail light gaskets. These are excellent suggestions IMO.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2591_9):
Clean the engine bay. Mine had 35 years of crud and dust buildup - it was so bad the dust had baked itself into the paint. I sprayed heavy duty Gunk all over mine, brushed the Gunk around, waited 20 minutes for it to soak in, brushed it around some more, then blasted everything with a garden hose. Looks so much cleaner and shinier.