QUESTION ID: 1076

QUESTION:
I recently purchased a E30 M3 rolling shell to build in to a track day car. The car was previously a DTM replica running a S54 CSL engine. I am now hoping to build it back up and use as a track toy. Here it is in its former glory: I have bought a S54 which is being rebuilt which will be mated to a e36 m3 5 speed box and track spec LSD. The rear wing didnt come with the car and will be replaced with a DTM style boot spoiler.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1076_0):
The car already has plenty of carbon such as boot, bonnet, rear diffuser, full carbon undertray, +20mm front wings, DTM mirror and interior panels but I am planning on having a full carbon exterior. Ive located a guy who already produces all the panels in carbon, here are a few samples:

ANSWER 2 (id: 1076_3):
Originally posted by bootlegskate are those stock front fenders? the flares look larger and nice! Wings = fenders, in the UK. He mentioned they're +20mm! This should be real nice :p

ANSWER 3 (id: 1076_4):
Originally posted by Zinoberrot jEEEZ. Thats amazing. Mind if i ask what those pannels run cost wise? Depends on which panels you are referring to - they obviously vary in price but the guy I got these from basically can do a full exterior in carbon - I just havent seen the rear box flares. Feel free to PM me and I cangive you the guys details.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1076_6):
Originally posted by craz azn The Gorilla-mobile! Did you get the rims/suspension with the car too? Thats right, Danny's old car. I got the suspension minus the front DTM arms. No rims either but i wanted to go another direction on those anyway.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1076_7):
Its been slow progress up to now - car has been stripped back to the shell largely - new engine mounts are being made - off the shelf items were not used as the engine was pushed back 60mm (with the help of fire wall modifications). There are several benefits to this. Better weight distribution and no modications were needed to the s54 sump in order to clear the sub frame. In the meantime Ive managed to order and collect all the other parts I will need for this build. Engine bay is looking terrible but is being prepared so it can be smoothened out a bit to look pretty. Here are the mock up engine mounts in preparation for proper mounts to be made by an engineer

ANSWER 6 (id: 1076_8):
Suspension is slowly being looked at now. Have used E36M Evo control arms to make sure castor position is maintained - used AKG adjustable rear bushes and Ground Control roll centre correction...