QUESTION ID: 2119

QUESTION:
So I've read a lot of posts through out this thread and ones outside of this page as well. In some of these post I see where people (newbs and veterans) will complain or share their experience with a company and just say avoid them all together. But I would argue that a lot of the "avoid them" comments don't come from personal experience. Maybe some do. But if you really think about it, what companies out there really cater to our platform? I know there are companies such as Ireland Engineering, Bimmerheads, Turner, Garagistics, Condorspeedshop. So with the negatives has anyone come out with a better solution? Or maybe their own company that provides as much support and offerings that these companies do? This isn't meant to be post for arguing or pointing fingers, just a discussing.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2119_0):
Beyond just companies to individual seller, I won't believe anyone's thread complaint if they don't post up all the messages/interactions/orders whatever. Just saying avoid is pointless without evidence and those who make these posts without evidence are immediately the messed up party in my eyes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2119_1):
Also not just complaints about customer service. I also mean what other companies are offering these products? I feel like sometimes we are jaded and are looking a gift horse in the mouth. But no one is above reproach. Bad service is bad service. Yeah you're right about needing proof.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2119_2):
Race German has a lot of parts availability. He also seems to be working with different part companies to get more specialized items. At first seemed like a one place shop for different companies but now is expanding. Otherwise there are a few specialty companies like Gaumann (I think correct spelling) here on the forum that makes new early model bumper surrounds and maybe other cnc cutout parts. I thought I could make carbon fiber bits to sell but turns out that's way harder than I expected and have made no progress haha.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2119_3):
I buy most things through Schmiedmann in Denmark. Always have had good customer service. Sometimes they can be a bit slow in sourcing the part you’ve ordered if it’s on backorder, but they seem to be able to access an amazing array of parts. I normally take the whinging posts to avoid x company (especially if they’re well established) with some skepticism too. Amazon’s same day delivery has given people unrealistic expectations & few people post about how they bought x part, there were no dramas, it arrived on time and was good quality.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2119_4):
Everyone's different. Every business is different. My example's Ireland- when Jeff still ran it, if I NEEDED it to be right the first time, I talked to Jeff. If I HOPED it'd be right, I called the order in. If I was feeling lucky, I'd order online. I had varied experiences, but it'd always get sorted out eventually. The parts weren't always chrome- plated and fullofawesomeness, but they also weren't priced that way, either. I dislike ECS's business practices, so I shop there dead last. But when I do, I get the parts I ordered. RockAuto's customer service isn't anything to get excited about- but if I'm broke that month, they usually ship me what I've ordered. Often, if you factor in the shipping, it's no more expensive to order from: FCP Groton has yet to fail me. Shipping from Connectikticut takes forever AutoHaus AZ likewise, and it can show up in 2 days. RMEuropean as well. All 3 of these have been good with not making mistakes, fixing mine, and replacing products that weren't up to what I wanted from them. t everyone's a little different...