QUESTION ID: 2625

QUESTION:
TBH I miss the old formal / colors of the forum. It was easier on the eyes and a bit better looking IMO. Not complaining, just wondering if anyone else feels the same.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2625_1):
My understanding is that a change was needed to keep up to date with the software. I do miss the location feature - it was nice to know when someone was nearby.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2625_11):
There is a company called Internet Brands that has bought hundreds of popular Internet forums. It also bought vbulletin. Then it kicked out the developers and hired new ones who created vbulletin 5 from scratch. It's known to be slow and buggy. Check some forums owned by Internet Brands. Honda-Tech - Honda Forum Discussion https://honda-tech.com/forums/ The leading unofficial Honda and Acura technical resource site AudiWorld Forums https://www.audiworld.com/forums/ The most comprehensive source for Audi news, information, rumors, and discussion. MBWorld.org Forums https://mbworld.org/forums/ The top destination for Mercedes and AMG discussion, news, and rumors Bike Forums https://www.bikeforums.net/ BikeForums is the leading online discussion site for avid cyclists. These forums use vbulletin 3 while Internet Brands promotes and sells vbulletin 5.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2625_2):
There's a dropdown at the bottom of the page that says 'Black Red', if you click it you can switch to a dark theme. Not the same as the old theme, but a bit easier on the eyes.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2625_3):
I miss how the old r3v showed the user's location under their avatar on each post. Really useful in the classified section, since nearly NO ONE understands that location matters enough to put it in their listing. The old r3v was noticeably faster too. Can't turn back time, but I do still get a gratifying E30 fix every time I logon & poke around here. Glad we have this valuable resource. Anyway, here's an E30-related pic to help you get your fix. E30 Grill (not grille).

ANSWER 5 (id: 2625_4):
Originally posted by Aleman I miss how the old r3v showed the user's location under their avatar on each post. Really useful in the classified section, since nearly NO ONE understands that location matters enough to put it in their listing. The old r3v was noticeably faster too. Can't turn back time, but I do still get a gratifying E30 fix every time I logon & poke around here. Glad we have this valuable resource. Anyway, here's an E30-related pic to help you get your fix. E30 Grill (not grille). Same. And I can really use those euroweaves on that grilll as spares. They can put my bottlecaps on there

ANSWER 6 (id: 2625_5):
I think everyone here misses the old format. Unfortunately, there's no going back, due to the lack of security support, for the old version of forum software. James and I discussed it at great length, and he wouldn't have changed it, unless it were a necessity.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2625_9):
Originally posted by noid The update has plummeted forum usage. Calling this version a downgrade is an understatement; its a piece of s#$%. A piece of ship you say? Which one?