QUESTION ID: 1929

QUESTION:
anyone know if rack doctor is stacked up these days ? reached out to them on a rack upgrade but they have a notice on their site that they have been moving. haven't heard a peep and wondering if i should look to ecs. i'm trying to get stuff together in a month or so.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1929_0):
anyone have any suggestions for another vendor ? i have the worst timing. rack doctor has either gone dark or are jammed up moving. ecs has a list for the rack but i was hoping to have it shipped with the proper e30 inner tie rods. i'm not even sure they have it in stock right now.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1929_10):
Too bad about the Rack Doctor’s current situation. There are lots of used e46 purple and gold tag racks around in junkyards these days. I found several low mileage cars with clean, indamaged, intact boots, no corrosion, fluid looks great racks in the last six months. None of which IMO need to be “rebuilt’ My thoughts are racks can be good for 30+ years and the few I pulled almost appear new, so the purple tag is going in tomorrow.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1929_11):
I’ve had good luck with rack doctor. It’s about your only option if you want to know what rack you’re getting. I do give small gigs the benefit of the doubt and more so now days. Their passion keeps them doing what most shops won’t waste their time with, especially trying to keep prices reasonable.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1929_12):
i took the chance but things aren't looking all that hopeful at the moment. i'm $1400 cdn poorer with not a word sent let alone the rack. it's crazy expensive to accomplish anything compared to pricing in the US.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1929_2):
I bought my rack from jjaxle supply on IG . They have any rack e46 e36 e30 z3 they are pricier than rackdocotr . But I tried rack doctor originally and waited two months and told me they didn’t have any cores to rebuild and had an indefinite wait .

ANSWER 6 (id: 1929_3):
Originally posted by prisonerofdoom83 I bought my rack from jjaxle supply on IG . They have any rack e46 e36 e30 z3 they are pricier than rackdocotr . But I tried rack doctor originally and waited two months and told me they didn’t have any cores to rebuild and had an indefinite wait . i just ordered one blind and asked for e30 inners through their special instructions dialogue box. been monitoring email to see if they've refunded or otherwise can't supply but have gotten nothing yet.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1929_4):
Originally posted by 82eye i just ordered one blind and asked for e30 inners through their special instructions dialogue box. been monitoring email to see if they've refunded or otherwise can't supply but have gotten nothing yet. I had to call a few times to get an update . Their email system is no hope . I moved right along and was okay with paying a bit more at the time only because I was doing my motor swap and needed one while the motor was out

ANSWER 8 (id: 1929_5):
Originally posted by prisonerofdoom83 I had to call a few times to get an update . Their email system is no hope . I moved right along and was okay with paying a bit more at the time only because I was doing my motor swap and needed one while the motor was out i'm in the same boat with the engine out. they haven't been on the phones either.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1929_6):
If you buy a used rack, you can often service it locally. Regular remanufacturers like Cardone can service it too: https://www.rockauto.com/en/catalog/...nd+pinion,7388 I doubt that Rack Doctor, etc do anything special, just disassembling, changing seals, cleaning.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1929_7):
Originally posted by Vincenze If you buy a used rack, you can often service it locally. Regular remanufacturers like Cardone can service it too: https://www.rockauto.com/en/catalog/...nd+pinion,7388 I doubt that Rack Doctor, etc do anything special, just disassembling, changing seals, cleaning. we can't get anything done local here anymore. there used to be 12 machine shops 5 yrs ago, 2 are open now. there are still a few hydraulic shops, but they haven't serviced racks in about a decade. everything is on a order, replace, and throw away basis now. edit : careful with the rock auto racks. they sell generic and reman, and often your rack is not the same lock to lock as you were hoping. the reman racks are usually correct for fitment, but may not be the same lock to lock ratio. edit : i've got a spare rack from rock auto that wouldn't cut it for my vw. we wound up sending the original to vancouver to get rebuilt.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1929_8):
Originally posted by 82eye we wound up sending the original to vancouver to get rebuilt. Vancouver is more local than Rack Doctor. If you find a rack on car-parts.com, you'll get more information about it.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1929_9):
I'll just mention that I've had a real poor experience with Rack Doctor this year. A newly "rebuilt" rack was a failure right out of the box and took 3 months to arrive after being quoted 3 weeks. Getting a replacement was "end of next week" but with nothing delivered after 4 weeks. I'm just sending everything back at this point, which to RD's credit they said they would honor a full refund. Now to get the rack of the car...