QUESTION ID: 3047

QUESTION:
Alright R3v guys, I'm getting married this October. My groomsmen and I have all agreed instead of doing the usual get wasted and go to a strip club thing, we want to try to rent out a track and some cars to have a good time. My bestman and I have been doing some serious googling and asides from a place in Vegas have come up empty handed. I had gone to an NHRA/ good guys event in Bowling Green KY and saw someone had an track e30 for rent. At the time I hadn't thought much more then "oh that's badass" and failed to get any contact info. If anyone knows of such a service and has any helpful recommendations I would love to hear them. There will be at least four of us ( possibly one to two more ). I live in Nashville, TN, two of the groomsmen live in Iowa where I'm from and the third lives in Chattanooga. I believe our closest tracks are Atlanta and Bowling Green. We've found super cars but we've all agreed we would much rather have dedicated track or drift cars to wind out. Let me know if you know anyone who would be helpful, we aren't afraid to travel but would prefer to keep it close as we all have jobs and families ofcourse. If there is no such thing, then I may have found a new business venture. :D

ANSWER 1 (id: 3047_0):
What about karts at AMP? Go Kart Racing | Atlanta Motorsports Park http://atlantamotorsportspark.com/karting/ Discover real motorsports at AMP Go Kart Racing, Atlanta's ultimate destination for karting on USA's most exciting & challenging kart racing circuit.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3047_1):
Originally posted by dmjensen My groomsmen and I have all agreed instead of doing the usual get wasted and go to a strip club thing Never underestimate this option. That's where I met my future wife. true story

ANSWER 3 (id: 3047_10):
Originally posted by Matt-B you can rent a pro 3 in washington for like 3k a day :shock: indeed! I'll be doing three stints of two hours each in an E30 ChumpCar next month for about half that.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3047_2):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Never underestimate this option. That's where I met my future wife. true story whaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat

ANSWER 5 (id: 3047_4):
:D it was a few years back. A few buddies of mine and I were on a stag and on the last night there, I was chatting this stripper up. I didn't pay for a lap dance, but before she got up to leave she jotted down her name and number on a napkin. ...I guess it didn't help that I was crushing hard (flirting) for this chic as soon as we stepped into the club...the Spearmint Rhino I believe (I don't remember much, only that I really wanted some water...I was literally dying inside). All the girls there knew how to fake it, but what we had transcended time. We were lost in each others eyes and there was no escape. When I approached her to say something in my totally inebriated state, all I could say was her hair was sooo pretty that it reminded me of my niece/god-daughter....yeah, I'm really smooth like that when I'm drunk :drink: My buddies (who were all married/engaged at the time) still bug me about it today asking if we are still in contact. I reply "a gentleman never kiss and tells" ;) true story

ANSWER 6 (id: 3047_6):
His response strongly suggests he is not in contact and/or restraining orders have been filed. On topic, I haven't really heard of anything like this aside from a Skip Barber/Bondurant-type school. I think liability is way too high. Karts would be super fun though, especially a larger outdoor track.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3047_7):
hehee, we chatted a bit after, but I lost contact with her since I'm not in the Vegas often and I'm not on FB. ...oh and my GF has issues with me having an ongoing relationship with said stripper (yeah I know, who does she think she is?!?!)