QUESTION ID: 3338

QUESTION:
Does anyone have pictures and sizes of the decal on the fuel filters they could post up ? There's some on eBay which shows half of one, but ideally looking for someone with one who can provide full details. Thanks This type.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3338_10):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I have yet to see anyone brave enough to slather that stuff all over their fresh engine bay. Someone undoubtedly has, but I just haven't seen it yet. I think I'll draw the line there. That said, it seemed effective on cars in the UK that got used all year round and covered in much and road salt etc.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3338_11):
Originally posted by 1843lamp I have the original fuel filter removed from my car with the intact label ,if I can find a way to post a photo I will ...no comment on the helpful comments you have already received. Imgur https://www.imgur.com Imgur: The magic of the Internet Just drag the photo from your desktop onto the site. That's it. It'll upload and then give you a link. You don't need to make an account.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3338_12):
Thank you for the photo tip.I was able several months ago to post photos here,but the last two months I am unable to load my photo to the sites photo file.i can load the photo ,but then it just vanishes ,I have tried numerous times.My iPad is constantly reloading so I think the issue is on my end,I will try again ,I had wanted to post some photos of my car ,and a few parts..

ANSWER 4 (id: 3338_4):
How soon until someone works out which employees sprayed on the cosmoline, on which day, when they were out sick, and what each individual spray pattern normally was? All that so they can do a 25k engine bay resto only to cover it in yellow crap. OTOH, if it's just to catalogue it for future reference, then the best of luck to you OP.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3338_5):
I have the original fuel filter removed from my car with the intact label ,if I can find a way to post a photo I will ...no comment on the helpful comments you have already received.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3338_7):
Originally posted by Kershaw I didn't realize e30s had hit 2002 levels of anal restoration levels. Yep. Happened when values started to climb and people started doing nut and bolt rebuilds. Do you see my other post in getting the exact same, or as close to, electric rad fan ?

ANSWER 7 (id: 3338_8):
Originally posted by roguetoaster How soon until someone works out which employees sprayed on the cosmoline, on which day, when they were out sick, and what each individual spray pattern normally was? All that so they can do a 25k engine bay resto only to cover it in yellow crap. OTOH, if it's just to catalogue it for future reference, then the best of luck to you OP. If you have any info on the above for my car, please post it up.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3338_9):
Originally posted by BMG If you have any info on the above for my car, please post it up. I have yet to see anyone brave enough to slather that stuff all over their fresh engine bay. Someone undoubtedly has, but I just haven't seen it yet.