QUESTION ID: 2109

QUESTION:
Just installed a 712 rack and one side is longer by about half an inch. Can I just center the rack with the steering wheel then remove the wheel and re-center it? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 2109_1):
It costs a few bucks, but I've used this tool from Turner several times and it makes steering rack installs a lot easier. Just like the Vanos camshaft alignment tool, I thought I'd use it only once, but have used it several times now

ANSWER 2 (id: 2109_2):
Originally posted by randomInteger Yes, should not be a problem. Let us know how it turns out. Awesome, thanks for verifying. I’ll let you know what happens.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2109_3):
Originally posted by mtech325 It costs a few bucks, but I've used this tool from Turner several times and it makes steering rack installs a lot easier. Just like the Vanos camshaft alignment tool, I thought I'd use it only once, but have used it several times now Might have to pick one of these up. Seems like it’s worth the time saved

ANSWER 4 (id: 2109_4):
When installing a rack, there's an arrow on the top, near the splines on a piece of plastic. That arrow is to point at the joint in the coupler. This will make it so the rack is centered every time. In your case where it's already installed, just remove the steering wheel and put it back straight. The spline count is the same on top/bottom, so it really doesn't matter orientation.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2109_5):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird When installing a rack, there's an arrow on the top, near the splines on a piece of plastic. That arrow is to point at the joint in the coupler. This will make it so the rack is centered every time. In your case where it's already installed, just remove the steering wheel and put it back straight. The spline count is the same on top/bottom, so it really doesn't matter orientation. Ohhhh okay that’s what that arrow was for lololol. Thank you! Next time I’ll definitely keep that in mind

ANSWER 6 (id: 2109_6):
I tried my best to line up the arrow on installation, but after doing the wheel alignment i still needed to slightly adjust the steering wheel to get it straight. Just about need some sort of locking thing to keep the rack centred during wheel alignment to get it perfect post wheel alignment.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2109_7):
If you aligned the arrow with seem in the coupler, and your steering wheel was off, then you need toe adjustment. E30's are so easy, they only have toe in stock config man.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2109_8):
My go-to process has always been to eye-ball the rack to center (or measure), install the steering shaft, remove the steering wheel nut, find a straight/flat road to remove and realign the wheel while driving, install nut. Repeat the process if you're a spline off.