QUESTION ID: 1693

QUESTION:
Hello, this is my first time posting here. Sorry if im doing anything wrong. Im really a fan of the e30 especially the coupe but i have no technical knowledge. Also i can't import any cars that are older than 10 years in my country, so im stuck to choose one already registered here ( i know..). This is an e30 coupe m50 swap that looks like it needs a little love. Can you please tell me what do you think and what should i be aware of? Thanks, i'll attach the pictures down here. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1693_0):
Buyers Guide - E30 Zone https://www.e30zone.net/buyers-guide/ Buying an E30 Buying a used car is always a chore, especially when you’re looking at something that is now

ANSWER 2 (id: 1693_1):
Originally posted by m50kocka This is an e30 coupe m50 swap that looks like it needs a little love. Can you please tell me what do you think and what should i be aware of? Thanks Not a bad looking E30, but definitely a modified one Your success on reviving this car depends on how hot your GF is, so attach a pic of her and we can give you a better percentage of success After that, I personally would start with refreshing the rubber fuel lines, starting all the way back at the tank and going all the way forward to the motor. Probably a new set of Spark Plugs, fresh fuel, likely needs new tires... after that you should be able to drive the car and you'll know how much more it needs. Thanks, and I will await the pics ;)

ANSWER 3 (id: 1693_10):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Throw caution to the wind and buy it. Let the adventure begin. Honestly I swear by this method. If the vibes are good, I buy it. Shit'll be broken and I'll have to fix it either way.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1693_12):
Originally posted by Jkitchin link to build thread? Tried searching He came, he spammed, he never returned... I couldnt find it either and asked him to ad links. Nothing.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1693_2):
i have no technical knowledge. Then to be brutally honest, a swapped car isn't the best place to start. Your dog will bite your hot girlfriend, she'll leave you and take all your money, you'll get depressed and lose your job- this is going to be a sad Country song from ages past. And we'll never get to see those pictures. Now, if you have technical ability and the desire to learn, maybe something could be salvaged from this mess. But you'll have to dig into a car that's probably already mostly working, and that can be a real challenge, mentally. I'd say keep looking for a stock M20 powered car. t Prove me Wrong.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1693_3):
i have to agree with starting on an m20 to learn the car first before taking on a swapped car. buying a swap is almost always simply paying to figure out the problems the previous guy was stumped on.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1693_4):
Throw caution to the wind and buy it. Let the adventure begin. (LOL kidding, but also serious. Sometimes you'll never know unless you try) Having said all this. A unmolested car would probably be better for a noob, or it could also be a nightmare. Kind of a gamble either way on old cars.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1693_6):
Originally posted by Leland E30 I have a 91 318i M54B30 Swap on Hagerty Classifieds This dude is europe or somewhere overseas. Please take a minute to read before you post

ANSWER 9 (id: 1693_9):
OP, does that car run and drive? Do you know what issues it has? From the pics, it just looks dirty and like it burns some oil, but runs. Maybe it's not the best starting point, but if e30s are rare for you, it would be a starting point. Drive it as-is, fix the problems it has, or do your own engine swap so you know all the little issues. Just buy it.