QUESTION ID: 1799

QUESTION:
The E30 is slowly moving into DD status, and a cupholder is clearly needed. There are far fewer threads than I expected (and none really recent ones, which makes me wonder about my search-fu, but anyway...), hence the new post. I've looked at the Amazon ones that stab into the gap between the transmission tunnel and the (passenger) seat, but they seem to be only OK. I'm guessing my kinda-tall Yeti Rambler travel mug won't be a great fit (though it isn't super-wide). ​ I'm curious about this one from eBay, which the seller says will install into the cassette holder: ​ Pardon Our Interruption... https://www.ebay.com/itm/385912119654 ...but at almost $80 delivered it makes me itch a little bit. (I do like that it's textured to look more OE) There are a couple on Etsy too: https://www.etsy.com/listing/1032755...holder-bmw-e30 ​ (also $80...) Love the price/function of this one, but not the gap... https://www.etsy.com/listing/1548047...0oz-cup-holder ​ It seems like what works for folks with the tray won't necessarily work for guys like me with the cassette holder (:rolleyes). FWIW I have zero interest in the ones that mount in the ashtray area. So I ask my cupholder-bereft brothers: What do y'all have?​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1799_0):
I have the gearswitch.us cupholder in my E30. I've had it for at least 7 years now and it works well and looks good, but you may hit a tall tumbler with your elbow while shifting if you put it in the front space. It is a good solution though and fits a yeti style stainless tumbler (but not a tervis) very well. $129 (gearswitch.us), or even $80 is a lot for a 3d printed cupholder imo. I 3d printed my own design for my E34 in PETG and it works great, it needs a revision for the bottom part so I didn't put it on thingiverse. Given the long print time and fact that I don't like to leave my printer running while I'm not home I would struggle to find the time to sell them but I have considered it. If you're handy with CAD you could probably get one of your own design printed for cheaper than those that are for sale now.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1799_1):
You guys are overlooking the stock cupholder, which is the gap between passenger seat, just ahead of the belt receptacle, and center console. When the PS seat is occupied that occupant simply becomes the cupholder. This solution completely matches the car and costs $0.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1799_10):
I really wouldn't recommend loading up the door pocket like that. The tabs on the bottom tend to break as well as the top slot where the handle attaches.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1799_11):
Originally posted by iXBeater Thanks very much for the first-hand recommendation! The door-bulge was my concern with that one - what's the best way to trim it? Originally posted by MR 325 I really wouldn't recommend loading up the door pocket like that. The tabs on the bottom tend to break as well as the top slot where the handle attaches. ​Matt is right, as I mentioned as the only con, it does push out the pocket, and the bottom tabs on mine have in fact popped out. The cup holder material is soft, so you could slice it with a knife and/or sand it down. This makes it not a true plug-and-play setup but in my opinion, still worth it. I've hand mine for at least 5 years, probably more.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1799_12):
I really like the idea of this one. It’s a Dutch webshop, but I’m pretty sure there is an international supplier somewhere. Geïntegreerde E30 Bekerhouder https://www.timsclassicparts.nl/a-75993072/interieur/geintegreerde-e30-bekerhouder/ Geïntegreerde E30 Bekerhouder Het is al sinds de bouw van de E30 een dingetje.... geen bekerhouder in de E30!

ANSWER 6 (id: 1799_2):
BMW E30 Center Console Cup Holder with Hidden Storage https://bottermanufacturing.com/products/bmw-e30-center-console-cupholder-with-hidden-storage We firmly believe that we have created the best E30 cup holder on the market. The combination of a period-correct boxy design, a removable insert to accommodate many different drink sizes, and a magnetic-latching sliding door for access to the storage below, makes this cup holder a must-have upgrade for any E30 enthusi I like this one.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1799_3):
Originally posted by roguetoaster You guys are overlooking the stock cupholder, which is the gap between passenger seat, just ahead of the belt receptacle, and center console. When the PS seat is occupied that occupant simply becomes the cupholder. This solution completely matches the car and costs $0. Tried - works fine in my Shark, but not the E30 :(

ANSWER 8 (id: 1799_4):
I have a holder from race german that replaces the rear ashtray, not the best for sipping while moving but its out of the way and looks pretty OK recently got this one from pelican Porsche and BMW Cup-A-Holder for 74-94 Porsche 911 and BMW E30 Zhongshan PEL.CUP.A.1 PEL CUP A 1 PELCUPA1 | Pelican Parts​ It's way oversized and will make the door pocket bulge unless you trim it down, but its pretty secure Patina handle is interesting but idk how passenger friendly it is

ANSWER 9 (id: 1799_5):
Originally posted by daruma3gakoronda https://bottermanufacturing.com/prod...hidden-storage I like this one. i have this Botter Manufacturing one. I like the way it looks, and it's a good makeshift arm rest. The larger hole is sized right but for standard bottle, but the other one is too small to fit anything but a skinny beverage can.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1799_7):
Originally posted by ehrawn i have this Botter Manufacturing one. I like the way it looks, and it's a good makeshift arm rest. The larger hole is sized right but for standard bottle, but the other one is too small to fit anything but a skinny beverage can. Unfortunately it says it won't work the cassette-holder center I have. Hmm... I'm guessing I could swap that...

ANSWER 11 (id: 1799_8):
I have this, and I love this: https://www.pelicanparts.com/More_In...q=cup%20holder One for each door pocket. It's secure (relatively), it keeps my thermos secure, and I love the reach; right next to my hand by the wheel. It's out of the way and keeps the thermos out of the way, not in front of controls, or annoyingly behind me. I also like that I can rest my knee against it during a hard right turn. It bends in well enough, it doesn't look out of place unless under scrutiny of a purist. Only con is that it's a little too big for the door pocket, it can be trimmed thinner though. 9/10 would recommend over any center-mounted cup holders.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1799_9):
Originally posted by Chilezen I have this, and I love this: https://www.pelicanparts.com/More_In...q=cup%20holder One for each door pocket. It's secure (relatively), it keeps my thermos secure, and I love the reach; right next to my hand by the wheel. It's out of the way and keeps the thermos out of the way, not in front of controls, or annoyingly behind me. I also like that I can rest my knee against it during a hard right turn. It bends in well enough, it doesn't look out of place unless under scrutiny of a purist. Only con is that it's a little too big for the door pocket, it can be trimmed thinner though. 9/10 would recommend over any center-mounted cup holders. Thanks very much for the first-hand recommendation! The door-bulge was my concern with that one - what's the best way to trim it?