QUESTION ID: 704

QUESTION:
basically I got tired of not being able to carry shit around, so I did something about it... factory hard-top racks are about as rare as unicorn farts so I made a few measurements and found the closest match that would allow modification to fit... I went with Yakima due to measurement and cosmetic reasons... 48" bars (2) control towers (4) landing pad #4 (4) yakima 38" fairing (totally necessary unless you LOVE terrible wind noise) and special bolts (from some local nut'n'bolt place) M8-1.25X20mm socket head cap screw... (fancy way of saying allen head) there is no rack that has bolts this large, this is why we must MAKE it work the "landing pads" require some modification. You must enlarge the holes and also elongate (inwards) the mounting holes they are only about 1/8" off so I brought each side inward 1/16" and made the holes big enough for a M8 screw to fit through... There ya go! Now we have the most useful E30 ever made... 3 looks for the price of one AND it carries shit in style... Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 704_0):
well, please allow me to be the first one to comment on your thread. that is f-ing nice! i am going to do exactly this for my ht. good job. that rack is actually nicer than the stock rare one. if nothing else, it will make it easier to lift off the top with a pulley system in your garage. can i please ask how much you have invested in the parts?

ANSWER 2 (id: 704_11):
a few more pictures for your enjoyment... I think I'll be ordering the hardware in stainless in the next few days as mine have started to corrode in less than 2 months in Hawaii's salty air... :-/ Attached Files

ANSWER 3 (id: 704_2):
Normal cost for a regular yakima control tower system... I think it was around $300 total .. sometimes you can find the control towers online uses for super cheap... They are the most expensive part.... I will pull the landing pad (adapter) off the roof so you can see the modification and special hardware... It's. SUPER easy... After you get all the parts and tools it will yak an hour or so to fit and install...

ANSWER 4 (id: 704_9):
:up::up::up::up::up::up::up::up::up::up: That's pretty F'ing dope! :up::up::up::up::up::up::up::up::up::up: 1st useful info on R3v in a long time.. LOL