QUESTION ID: 3607
TOPIC: engine_swap

QUESTION:
St patricks day sale + Blog is offically live! We wanted to give everyone a little update. We have been busy with a few things including getting some new parts on the website! Be sure to see the new products and lots of specials going on for this weekend only. These items include: Complete poly suspension kit, e30 HD motor and trans bushings set, E36/E46 Poly RTABs, E30 is splitter sale, e30 to e36/e46 steering rack swap kit, Garagistic swag t-shirts, LED OBC sale, and more below! Click to see all specials! Some items we just put on the website: IS lip splitters are 40% off. $45!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3607_3):
Originally posted by phenryiv1 Just placed my order for some small items. Heads-up- there is no link on the main site to the t-shirt or any other swag/softgoods. Thank you for letting us know. We will get that fixed. Originally posted by nando that steering shaft/coupler is awesome. that would be perfect for my rack swap that I've been on/off for the last 3 years. We look forward to serving you. Originally posted by jpod999 Just ordered the poly suspension kit, thanks! Thank you. We will get right on it and send a tracking number shortly. Thanks!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3607_4):
Originally posted by garagistic Thank you for letting us know. We will get that fixed. We look forward to serving you. Thank you. We will get right on it and send a tracking number shortly. Thanks! Thank you for the fast shipping once again. I had live tracking within 24 hours. For a "small" operation (no offense intended) you know how to treat customers and to respect both our time and our wallets. That plays no small part in why I have kept coming back. I may never make a huge purchase from you guys (I don't know if I really feel like undergoing a full bushing refresh ever again) but if I do, I know where I'll turn.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3607_5):
Originally posted by phenryiv1 Thank you for the fast shipping once again. I had live tracking within 24 hours. For a "small" operation (no offense intended) you know how to treat customers and to respect both our time and our wallets. That plays no small part in why I have kept coming back. I may never make a huge purchase from you guys (I don't know if I really feel like undergoing a full bushing refresh ever again) but if I do, I know where I'll turn. Thank you for your kind words! Always happy to hear people enjoy what we enjoying doing!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3607_7):
Originally posted by garagistic Thank you. We will get right on it and send a tracking number shortly. Thanks! Got my kit in yesterday, looks awesome and I can't wait to get all the bushings in!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3607_8):
Originally posted by cavpilot I've bought a few things from Garagistic in the past. Great service and quality. I'd definitely buy from them again. Originally posted by jpod999 Got my kit in yesterday, looks awesome and I can't wait to get all the bushings in! Thanks guys! Please let us know if you have any questions!