QUESTION ID: 2244

QUESTION:
Anyone know of a shipping service that’ll pick up wheels in the UK and ship it to US or similar?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2244_0):
Originally posted by AmosCake Anyone know of a shipping service that’ll pick up wheels in the UK and ship it to US or similar? have to check but i think alloy wheels uk uses dhl. i'd start there for quotes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2244_1):
Originally posted by 82eye have to check but i think alloy wheels uk uses dhl. i'd start there for quotes. Perfect just checked em up. They do collections which is perfect. Thanks a ton

ANSWER 3 (id: 2244_10):
Originally posted by varg It's not a hands-off process either. I had wheels shipped via TNT-fedex, they got held up at customs and I had to sign a form authorizing fedex to import them and pay the duties, then fedex billed me. The whole process held them up about a week. fedex uses their own in house broker and provides their own customs services. that is where they generate most of those outrageous charges. other shippers use standard brokerage and customs services, which is why their charges will be lower dhl shipped my ronals from ireland. charges were up front including duties. i paid $120 on about $1100 total cdn. there were no extra charges at the door unlike fedex.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2244_3):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I have used TNT successfully in the past for this exact scenario. They are currently being acquired by FedEx and were significantly cheaper than DHL. they likely won't be now. fedex has the worlds worst reputation unless you are in the states. they will routinely hold your order hostage at the door unless you pay up extra. sometimes they even demand cash so it can't be traced. other times they are ok with a card. the extra charges can be from 20% to 100% of the total original cost. the more expensive the item is, the more they try squeeze out of you. i won't work with suppliers who use fedex any more. looking at you FCP and your shit claim of guaranteed parts. edit : fedex is ok until you try ship something over a border. then they turn in to a bunch of rapists.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2244_4):
Originally posted by 82eye the more expensive the item is, the more they try squeeze out of you. It's called the import duty. I believe you can import things to the USA up to $800 without paying taxes. The more expensive your parcel, the higher the tax. Fedex will charge you the fee because it pays the tax on your behalf, then you have to pay it to Fedex plus the fee. That's why it's important to work with a company that knows how to write customs declarations correctly. If not, the customs may not approve it, and your parcel can be destroyed. I guess if you self-ship, you must prepare all the forms. Ask how much this company will charge you for shipping http://www.alphagloballogistics.co.uk

ANSWER 6 (id: 2244_5):
DHL sends you a message too, "Pay the tax or your goods will be returned." DHL wanted $35 from me on a $1,000 parcel from Schmiedmann.com The Fedex main hub in Europe is in France. DHL sends planes from London. I guess AmosCake has a different problem. The seller of the wheels can ship in the UK, but not abroad. Then, it's better to use a proxy service that will receive the wheels, repackage them, and ship them abroad. I use proxy services to ship things from Japan auctions. The Japanese sell interesting things on Yahoo, but don't want to ship internationally.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2244_6):
It's not a hands-off process either. I had wheels shipped via TNT-fedex, they got held up at customs and I had to sign a form authorizing fedex to import them and pay the duties, then fedex billed me. The whole process held them up about a week.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2244_7):
Originally posted by varg It's not a hands-off process either. I had wheels shipped via TNT-fedex, they got held up at customs and I had to sign a form authorizing fedex to import them and pay the duties, then fedex billed me. The whole process held them up about a week. Couldn't you divide the parcel to two parcels to keep each under $800?

ANSWER 9 (id: 2244_8):
I've imported stuff here through UPS, Fedex and DHL. All at one time or another have held them until import duty and taxes are paid. i now refuse FEDEX wherever possible as they damaged an item and refused despite being insured as they said the shipper didn't package them properly when that was bogus and therefore the company that send denied responsibility so i was out of pocket.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2244_9):
Originally posted by digger I've imported stuff here through UPS, Fedex and DHL. All at one time or another have held them until import duty and taxes are paid. i now refuse FEDEX wherever possible as they damaged an item and refused despite being insured as they said the shipper didn't package them properly when that was bogus and therefore the company that send denied responsibility so i was out of pocket. with you there. i won't use fedex if i have a choice. i've changed suppliers and purchase decisions based on shipping choices.