QUESTION ID: 3587

QUESTION:
UPDATE: Toyota is replacing engine at no charge. It is being covered under The Engine Oil Consumption warranty TSB 0158-14 and Oil gelling warranty. The oil gelling was the reason why there was sign no of oil on the dipstick after numerous times of checking it. The oil gelling was causing it to burn at a much faster rate hence the engine blowing up. Very big thanks To Exodus! You really offered help and im greatly appreciative of that. I owe you! Also, thank you very much to anyone who helped or gave me their input. To everyone who was cracking jokes thanks for making everyone laugh, guys! :D Just wanted to see if any of you guys have advice on this. So, my mom bought a 2007 Camry (non hybrid) from a used car dealer here in Sac around a year ago. The vehicle had around 63,xxx on it, it was a good purchase. She got great gas mileage on it, all together it was a great car. Until it started making an odd rattling noise it got louder as the RPM's climbed. So i looked at her pulleys and saw that her alternator pulley wobbled a little bit and there was sign of a blown bearing. So i replaced and the rattling went away. Then a month passes and her maintenance required light showed up, in the manual this typically means the engine needed oil. So i check the dipstick and it never would give me an accurate reading. Most the time the dipstick showed that there was no oil in the engine. So for safe precaution i would drain the oil and only around 3.2 guarts would drain out. Safe to say the engine was burning oil. Eventually after going through countless oil changes over the series of 6 months her cats finally were worn out because of the amount of burnt oil in the exhaust. She payed 600 for the first cat that is connected directly to the exhaust manifold and 1,500 for the secondary cat because it is dealer only. (FUCK YOU TOYOTA) She also had the o2 sensors replaced. So her cats were brand new and the rattling went away. But it was still burning oil. There wasnt really anything we could do about the burning oil, toyota said it was normal in their manual and over the phone. So that brings us today. My mother was running errands today and she stopped for gas. She checked the oil level and as per usual it gave her no reading, no indication that there was oil in the engine. She carries 5 gallons of oil in her car at all times and adds about a quart every couple hundred miles. So after she left the gas station she began to drive over an over pass she began to hear a knocking, she slowed the car and it went away as she slowed to stop at a red light. When the light turned green she began to accelerate. (keep in mind no indicators turned on or flashed while this knock happened and there was no rise in engine temperature.) She thought nothing of it, she got up to speed limit (45mph) and the rattling came back but this time much louder and the car began to lose all of its power the suddenly she hears a big bang and looks in her rear view mirror and sees milky smoke pouring out the back of her car. She slows the car down and it dies. A guy helps her push it to the nearest gas station and the bitch was on fire!!! Anyways, theres a hole in the block. Im assuming the problem was that there wasnt enough in the engine (obviously). But, who should be held accountable? There was no oil check light that turned on, no rise in engine temperature, no check engine light until it blew up. She has full boat insurance. How do you guuys think this is gonna turn out? So my questions: She has full boat so could this possibly just be an insurance claim? Should we contact toyota about the situation? Dealer? Shes freaking out, id like to just give her some piece of mind. Thans for any insight guys!! As always much appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3587_1):
Originally posted by Yungbimmer Plus i fucking hate working on japanes cars, theyre so stupid. German cars are stronger, simpler, easier IMHO. Your opinion is based off of what? That statement combined with being happy your mom's car died shows your immaturity. She probably just wants a reliable car to get her from point A to point B, and you are pushing her towards a BMW because of what? Why do you give a shit what she drives? There is absolutely nothing wrong with a Camry for reliability. Also, dipsticks don't lie. If you can't "reliably" read a dipstick, then close the hood and slowly step away from the vehicle.. Finally, if it died from low oil, an oil light was on.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3587_10):
I highly doubt you have enough information to create a valid opinion on Japanese engineering. You are however entitled to a opinion, I agree. You realize that no one will give your Mom a new vehicle right? Do you think she is happy about having to spend money to buy another vehicle, or repair her current one? Repair would be cheaper, and probably a better idea. That crappy Japanese engineered vehicle will outlast any modern BMW. (If properly maintained and cared for.) Your inability to read a dipstick was my first hint that you are "some stupid fuckin kid who doesnt know a thing about cars." (Your words) Also, I don't need to be in the car with her to know how an oil pressure light works. I'm not trying to be an asshole. I'm merely telling you what you might not want to hear, but it's my opinion that you are coming off as a hot headed punk. I totally accept that I can be an asshole. Finally, Originally posted by CarsonE30 In my time on this forum, I've learned that exodus will always be the one who shuts down all illogical claims with great finesse. He's half the reason I browse the OT lounge and look for titles like this <3

ANSWER 3 (id: 3587_11):
Originally posted by Exodus_2pt0 I highly doubt you have enough information to create a valid opinion on Japanese engineering. You are however entitled to a opinion, I agree. You realize that no one will give your Mom a new vehicle right? Do you think she is happy about having to spend money to buy another vehicle, or repair her current one? Repair would be cheaper, and probably a better idea. That crappy Japanese engineered vehicle will outlast any modern BMW. (If properly maintained and cared for.) Your inability to read a dipstick was my first hint that you are "some stupid fuckin kid who doesnt know a thing about cars." (Your words) Also, I don't need to be in the car with her to know how an oil pressure light works. I'm not trying to be an asshole. I'm merely telling you what you might not want to hear, but it's my opinion that you are coming off as a hot headed punk. I totally accept that I can be an asshole. Finally, <3 Im fully aware of what your assumptions are based off. I can fully understand how a dipstick reading works. Which is why i was clueless when it kept giving no reading even after letting it sit for a few hours after a fresh oil change. And i get your were trying to help in your own unique way but theres no need to act pretentious like you know more than me instead of giving help and advice. Youre assuming that an oil pressure light was on but in fact there was no light on. Not only that, but if theres was no oil in the engine within the first couple of hours of her driving the car dont you think the coolant temperature gauge would be through the roof? I certainly do. And thank you for telling me what i might not want to here, there is always a negative to a positive situation. The car has had multpile recalls over the years since it was produced. It makes the company look unreliable in my eyes. I never said you were an asshole, cause youre not. Thank you for your help, Exodus. I apologize if I came off like a hot headed punk, this situation is just stressful. Thanks for taking your time to read through it, i appreciate it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3587_2):
There's actually a recall letter that just went out for oil consumption. I have yet to schedule the appointment. My wife also has a 2007 Camry (I assume your moms is also 4cyl?) it's a car we love to hate and hate to love. It's "just ok" on gas (I expect 35mpg or more out of a 4 cylinder Japanese car) BUT I will say it has needed hardly any repairs in three years, so it's been a blessing in terms of overall cost of ownership. My wife's old boss had a Camry (same generation, may have been a 6cyl) and he also blew up the motor, although I didn't hear what the root cause was, I assumed oil starvation.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3587_3):
In my time on this forum, I've learned that exodus will always be the one who shuts down all illogical claims with great finesse. He's half the reason I browse the OT lounge and look for titles like this As previously stated, they did send out a recall letter but since it's already blown, I don't think you have any word through Toyota or the dealer. If you realize that your car is burning oil and just assume it's fine and don't put that as #1 on your priority list, I'd say you were asking for something bad to happen.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3587_5):
Originally posted by Yungbimmer Lol but im kinda happy this happened cause it means shes getting a beamer. Ive convinced her that they're are the ultimate car breed. Plus i fucking hate working on japanes cars, theyre so stupid. German cars are stronger, simpler, easier IMHO. But thans for any insight guys!! *decides to not give advice

ANSWER 7 (id: 3587_6):
Originally posted by Exodus_2pt0 Your opinion is based off of what? That statement combined with being happy your mom's car died shows your immaturity. She probably just wants a reliable car to get her from point A to point B, and you are pushing her towards a BMW because of what? Why do you give a shit what she drives? There is absolutely nothing wrong with a Camry for reliability. Also, dipsticks don't lie. If you can't "reliably" read a dipstick, then close the hood and slowly step away from the vehicle.. Finally, if it died from low oil, an oil light was on. I was fully expecting someone to comment something like this. Well first of all my opinion is based on the fact that i just dislike japanese engineering, its my opinion and im entitled to it. Second of all, you dont fully understand my the situation because you were not there. I am happy for my mother because shes wanted a BMW for a while now and has hated the camry since we got it. And this is possibly a way for her to move on to her next vehicle. Why do i give a shit what she drives? HMMM? Well, for starters id really like her to have a vehicle that doesnt blow up and catch fire while shes in the fucking car. Do you care what your mother drives? Cause if i were you i would. I love how youre instantly treating me as im some stupid fuckin kid who doesnt know a thing about cars. Youre rather disrespectful. My statements about me being happy about her getting a BMW was a simple way to lighten the situation. Finally, if it died from low oil, an oil light was on. Really? So you were in the car with her? Didnt think so. But hey, thanks for showing me that theyre people in the e30 community that treat you like shit when youre in need of help. Thanks a ton for your help.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3587_8):
Originally posted by J.Rizo *decides to not give advice I understand that came off very childish and immature. But this car has given her multiple problems. Shes grown not very fond of the car and then it goes and blows up on her. I mean if she didnt see the fire who knows what couldve happened? She could be dead. Im sorry if it offended any of you, it was not my intention. Not here to make enemies, I just wanted some advice.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3587_9):
Originally posted by mjimport There's actually a recall letter that just went out for oil consumption. I have yet to schedule the appointment. My wife also has a 2007 Camry (I assume your moms is also 4cyl?) it's a car we love to hate and hate to love. It's "just ok" on gas (I expect 35mpg or more out of a 4 cylinder Japanese car) BUT I will say it has needed hardly any repairs in three years, so it's been a blessing in terms of overall cost of ownership. My wife's old boss had a Camry (same generation, may have been a 6cyl) and he also blew up the motor, although I didn't hear what the root cause was, I assumed oil starvation. This^^ Thank you so much for your help!! And yes hers is a 4cyl. Other than cats and the alt pulley, it was a great car. It just always needed oil. And we always stayed on top of it. Sad to see it like this. But thank you so much, i greatly appreciate it.