QUESTION ID: 627

QUESTION:
I was tucking the front bumper on my 84' drilling the shock off of the car. I used a very small drill bit and held a rag over the hole. The shock exploded with way more power than I estimated. The shock fluid shot in a fine mist and hit my roof, car, drill and my face. The shock of the shock exploding caused me to gasp and I inhaled the mist of death. I cleaned everything up and felt fine. The next day on my way to work I felt drunk and I was coughing painful lung tearing coughs. I just avoided coughing as much as possible until I got home, at which point my throat started to close up. I laid down and relaxed and it went away. Then 4 or so hours later my throat was almost completely closed. So I called the poison control center who looked up the info and informed me that this fluid is hydrocarbon based and very harmful(no shit). It often causes delayed pneumonia symptoms which I had. So I went to the ER with a 100 degree temperature coughing up huge chunks of random stuff with extremely painful coughs. After a chest Xray I was told I wasn't going to die. Given a breathing treatment to open up my lungs and sent home with an inhaler. I'm a idiot for breathing it in, and for not setting up a better shield. If you're going to do this, wear a mask, face shield, turbin, anything to protect your orifices and lungs.

ANSWER 1 (id: 627_10):
Originally posted by JasonC Good to hear you're ok. But i thought that when drilling a shock that was under pressure, that common sense would say stand back for the pressure to be released! Yeah I'm totally retarded. But I did learn my lesson. I felt like an idiot explaining what happened to the doctor. "what's a shock absorber?"

ANSWER 2 (id: 627_3):
Whoa, note to self: where face mask when tucking bumpers on eta. glad you're going to be alright. did you get that shit put back together and tucked ?

ANSWER 3 (id: 627_5):
Yeah, I heard a lot about things like that (not exactly your case) but I wore goggles, did it outside, away from my car, and most importantly, closed my mouth right before breaking through. Glad you're going to be okay OP. Seemed like a scary situation.

ANSWER 4 (id: 627_6):
shock Oil is.................well oil. Of course its hydrocarbon based. but yeah breathing in anything other than air is generally not advisable, as is drilling holes it shit that has highly compressed fluid in it. UNLESS Proper precautions are taken. I am glad you are ok, and the good thing about this is, you have learned a very valuable lesson outta this. Sorry to be the grandpa in the room.

ANSWER 5 (id: 627_8):
Good to hear you're ok. But i thought that when drilling a shock that was under pressure, that common sense would say stand back for the pressure to be released!

ANSWER 6 (id: 627_9):
Originally posted by expressfish Whoa, note to self: where face mask when tucking bumpers on eta. glad you're going to be alright. did you get that shit put back together and tucked ? Haha yeah it's back together and looks so much better.