QUESTION ID: 3443

QUESTION:
Hi everyone As some of you already know, I discovered you can use a business sock as an oil cap and had already travelled at least 200kms with it in place without issue. Early this morning I went to start the car and nothing. No crank, just nothing. Thought it was the battery so I tried jumping it but still no luck. I took the car to my mechanic who tore the engine down today while I worked and he found this: Basically he said it's toast and I'm better off getting a new motor out of a wrecked car. I'm already up for money because he tore it down for me. Am I really better off getting a new motor? Surely a sock can't do damage like that to metal parts!!! Can anyone give advise? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 3443_0):
Feels like troll post. but will play along....... That said I would be more curious as to how a sock got in your crankcase, when you were useing it to "keep oil in at the cam cover". Unless I have forgotten a whole lot about m20s I dont think there is an oil return passage big enough to suck a sock whole that far into the engine. Me thinks your wrench twister is trying to pull a fast one, wrapped up in the cam and keeping you from turning it over sure but not in the lower end. feels like a variation of this old school thread I ****ed up bad. camshaft-oil problem http://forum.e46fanatics.com/showthread.php?t=311931 if all you are going to do is flame me, just leave the thread and thats that. I ****ed up badly the other night. The oil light came on, i got oil, put it in and accidently dropped the oil cap down below the engine. heres where i ****ed up- i temporarily plugged the uncapped oil hole with a sock...

ANSWER 2 (id: 3443_1):
Originally posted by mrsleeve Feels like troll post. but will play along....... That said I would be more curious as to how a sock got in your crankcase, when you were usining it to keep oil in at the valve cover. Unless I have forgotten a whole lot about m20s I dont think there is an oil return passage big enough to suck a sock whole, that far into the engine. Me thinks your wrench twister is trying to pull a fast one So my mechanic is trying to scam me? I could have the car towed to another mechanic for a second opinion but that will cost me even more.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3443_10):
lol Those quotations have very little, and in fact have nothing to do with Mr Trump and other than Mencken predate him by centuries, and have held those places in my sig line for about half a decade or more now. I am bored someone has to feed the troll once in a while

ANSWER 4 (id: 3443_11):
Originally posted by Reub_e30 Just stop this guy is being a big troll mid will soon lock it up. Look at previous thread Oh look at that, the voice of reason. No one wants you here, fuck off and go drive your bucket of shit Colorado off a cliff but don't die, simply become a paraplegic for the rest of your life and rely on 40 year old women to scoop up your shit.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3443_12):
Originally posted by mrsleeve lol Those quotations have very little, and in fact have nothing to do with Mr Trump and other than Mencken predate him by centuries. I am bored someone has to feed the troll once in a while The quotes weren't said by Trump, but they scream Trump Supporter.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3443_13):
Originally posted by 5seriesor3 Oh look at that, the voice of reason. No one wants you here, fuck off and go drive your bucket of shit Colorado off a cliff but don't die, simply become a paraplegic for the rest of your life and rely on 40 year old women to scoop up your shit. Smart comment, very much appreciated!

ANSWER 7 (id: 3443_2):
Originally posted by mrsleeve Feels like troll post. but will play along....... That said I would be more curious as to how a sock got in your crankcase, when you were useing it to "keep oil in at the cam cover". Unless I have forgotten a whole lot about m20s I dont think there is an oil return passage big enough to suck a sock whole that far into the engine. Me thinks your wrench twister is trying to pull a fast one, wrapped up in the cam and keeping you from turning it over sure but not in the lower end. feels like a variation of this old school thread http://forum.e46fanatics.com/showthread.php?t=311931 By the way you say it's an m20 but it isn't because I know they didn't make those for e39s. does the e39 motor have big enough oil passages for that to happen or do you still think my mechanic is a scammer?

ANSWER 8 (id: 3443_3):
If you dont understand why a fucking sock over a gaping hole in your cam cover is a giant Vac leak, or why that is a bad thing in the 1st place, or dont understand why there should be no way a whole sock can get in to the lower end of an engine with out being destroyed in the process. Me thinks your in way over your head as it is now and it does not matter how many shops you take it too.... Do you even understand what parts you are looking at in that photo Ok so its an M50 then same thing applies there is just twice as much shit for it to get wrapped up around in the head then E39 e30 e92 does not matter there is no way for a fucking sock to get all the way into the crank case WHOLE from the cam covers with out being chewed up in to little pieces and warped around ever other rotational part in the head 1st. Unless you take it apart and shove it up in there like someone must have in that pic of yours

ANSWER 9 (id: 3443_5):
Originally posted by 5seriesor3 By the way you say it's an m20 but it isn't because I know they didn't make those for e39s. does the e39 motor have big enough oil passages for that to happen or do you still think my mechanic is a scammer? I think a fool and their money are soon to part ways

ANSWER 10 (id: 3443_6):
Originally posted by mrsleeve I think a fool and their money are soon to part ways Excuse me? I do not appreciate your aggression towards me or my question. I suspect your short term as a r3vimited diagnostic mechanic has rewarded you respect among your 15 year old peers however it will not get you the trade recognition you think you deserve. In fact I see your lack of respect as a direct result of your parents poor attempt to raise you as an intellectual human being. Perhaps it was a result from that time you were five and you walked in on your dad throat slamming your brothers lid, or perhaps it was the sheer disappointment as your were extorted into tongue punching your mums asshole as a reward for not turning Uncle Tim into the police for fucking the both of you under your aunts supervision. Either way this is no excuse to exercise the limited resource library for knowledge that you have come to acknowledge as your brain.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3443_7):
wow that escalated quickly..... My friend I have been working on cars since before you were even an itch in your old mans bag, and I suspect the best part of you ran down your mommies leg. If you think what I have responded to you is somehow in accurate or offensive then you in the wrong place

ANSWER 12 (id: 3443_8):
Obviously you're into politics, but that appears to only consist of meaningless, bullshit quotes which ultimately convey a message of 'I'm voting for Trump to save America'. You're a spineless person who needs to stand behind quotes in order to feel more important and as if you're making a difference in your life; of which you clearly aren't and yet you tell me that I'm the fool. Ironic.

ANSWER 13 (id: 3443_9):
Originally posted by mrsleeve I think a fool and their money are soon to part ways Just stop this guy is being a big troll. Mod will soon lock it up. Look at previous thread. This guy opparently doesn't have a life. I'm out