QUESTION ID: 3272

QUESTION:
Thanks all that served. You rock! Those still far away from home, get back safe. Thank you for your service. Who here has a family member that is in the service? Or was?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3272_1):
Good post and totally agree. My father was forcibly conscripted by the Germans and fought the Soviets in Estonia for 9 months before being wounded by a hand grenade (thrown by a female Soviet solider - the Soviets were the only army in WWII to use women in front line roles, but covered it all up and ignored their contributions after the war). He eventually wound up in Canada.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3272_3):
My dad served in the Navy and later volunteered with Army's 7th Cavalry; he was wounded in the Korean War. He now rests in the Golden Gate National Cemetary. My son is a Marine. We are proud of him.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3272_4):
Neither my parents or grandparents served, but my brother, sister, and I all are ex-Army. Thank you, I do feel that veterans get overlooked. I try to be incredibly humble about it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3272_5):
Yes! Thank you to all of our vets, inclduing all of my vet friends, my grandfather (USAF WWII, stationed in Burma) and all current vets out there :up:

ANSWER 5 (id: 3272_6):
Thank you to all who served, including my late grandfather and my uncle (both USAF). They do a nice Veteran's Day parade here every year; I snapped a few pics.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3272_9):
I'm glad I made this thread. Thank you all who are serving. Speaking of USMC - I've spent 2 weekends at Camp Pendleton - that place is mind blowing. The number of recruits in training is mind blowing. I currently live right next-door to a navy ship yard. So, my town is very proud of it's roots. My Dad was ROTC in college, went on to USAF Captain. He worked as an engineer for the liquid propelled rocket division at Edwards AFB, specializing in cryogenic fitting and high speed turbo pumps for the rocket engines on the Saturn 5. Not a war hero, but still very cool in it's own right. ------ Originally posted by agent They do a nice Veteran's Day parade here every year; I snapped a few pics. I had no idea you live in such a small town. I spent a few years in a little California farming/ranching town where my family put down stakes in the 40's. Small towns can be kinda awesome too.