QUESTION ID: 3193

QUESTION:
Can s14 throttle bodies fit on a m10?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3193_1):
Originally posted by uofom3 don't know.. but someone stuck them on an m42 with megasquirt. fast as balls. pointless for the m42. the spacing is different. get euro s5x ttb's and cut 2 off. they're spaced right, just the bolt pattern doesn't line up. a simple half inch adapter can be easily made. or you could buy the dblias settup, or one from another company in the u.s. somewhere... just can't remember the name right now. Don't know about M10's though.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3193_10):
There was an e21 that ran s14 itbs on his m10. Then boosted, then switched to efi & boost. No idea where his build thread is, but yes it has been done.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3193_4):
It will fit with a lot of machining. Need to make a thick flange for the M10. Cut the S14 throttle flange. Weld. And lot of filling and porting. But yeah. It can be done.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3193_6):
I'm telling you, m10 e30's can be fun little car to put around in - reminds me a kart. You HAVE TO learn how to carry your speed - even in in-town driving!!! If I forced someone to drive an m10 for a month, they would become a better driver - I'm sure of it. Best M10 mod seems to be a turbo. It's not like m10 blocks and heads are worth that much. That's when you have one long block in the car and one on the workbench. Boost the hell out of it, and have one motor ready to go in after it needs a "freshening up"

ANSWER 5 (id: 3193_7):
Originally posted by george graves Best M10 mod seems to be a turbo. It's not like m10 blocks and heads are worth that much. That's when you have one long block in the car and one on the workbench. Boost the hell out of it, and have one motor ready to go in after it needs a "freshening up" Agreed, I've got a couple of blocks and heads lying around. if something happens to the one in my car I can just chuck a new one in, I've got studs and MLS gasket which are all re-usable so its only really labour and things like timing cover gaskets.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3193_9):
Originally posted by Massive Lee It will fit with a lot of machining. Need to make a thick flange for the M10. Cut the S14 throttle flange. Weld. And lot of filling and porting. But yeah. It can be done. S14 ITB flange wants to be where the water outlet (-that F-shaped pipe-) is, not a simple thing to solve. TPS more or less hits that water pipe also. I cut it shorter but that way you'll lose one of the 3 temperature switch/sensor holes. Depending on engine management that may or may not matter. I'll probably post pics when I finish my adapter. This is one of those jobs that if you have to ask "is it difficult", just forget it. I'm just cutting and drilling and coming up with solutions as I go :). Some people have cut throttle flanges off and welded on 318i L-jet parts instead. S14 fuel rail has injectors on straight, L-jet has them at an angle so you need the right fuel rail also whatever you do. -Jarno