QUESTION ID: 386

QUESTION:
How logn will the CV joints generally last as far as mileage after they start ticking....? im just looking for an average estimate, b/c i cant get time to fix it for another month. Do i need to look for alternative transportation methods? or will it hold up if i go gentle on her?

ANSWER 1 (id: 386_1):
i wont, it wasnt my intension....im in college....2 hours away from home, i knew they needed to be replaced, but i just dont have time. I will do it ASAP..... i hate beign 2 hours away form my shop =(.... can't really fix my rearend in an appartment parkign lot :oops:

ANSWER 2 (id: 386_2):
They can vary greatly depending on how you drive them. Lost of jackrabbit starts they can blow in under 200k easy. Be nice and they can outlast the car. Its just a matter of when the cage that holds the bearings in finally gives way. Of course this relies on the boots not being destroyed. If the boot is destroyed then crap can get in and bind the bearings causing them to fail differently. You dont want them to pop so unless you can replace them drive nice. They are a friggin mess if the CV explodes.

ANSWER 3 (id: 386_3):
yea, the boot IS torn =( and its ticking alot, i know its on the go, i have replacements, along wtha adiff, subframe busings, and trailing arm bushings....i know its on the fritz i just wantted to know how long they will last after the ticking starts. the soonest i can replace them is the 3rd week in march =(, unlessi go for alternative means of transportation...then i can polly pay someone to do it

ANSWER 4 (id: 386_5):
FWIW, I drove like an ass for about 10k miles on a torn CV boot, before I had any idea what I was doing. It made some nasty noises during low speed tight turns. Replaced it shortly after the motor swap.

ANSWER 5 (id: 386_6):
Yeah torn boots usually give you some warning since the crap in there ruins the bearings slowly. In my case the cage that contain the bearings exploded ina spectacular fashion leaving the halfshaft flopping around and grease EVERYWHERE.

ANSWER 6 (id: 386_7):
Originally posted by Ryan Stewart Yeah torn boots usually give you some warning since the crap in there ruins the bearings slowly. In my case the cage that contain the bearings exploded ina spectacular fashion leaving the halfshaft flopping around and grease EVERYWHERE. *gulp* thats what im afraid of....

ANSWER 7 (id: 386_8):
Mine are starting to tick. They're original as far as I know, and have 265K of abuse. What is a fair price on a used set of low-mileage half-shafts? (under 100K)