QUESTION ID: 1777

QUESTION:
Who sells weld in patch panels state side? If not, is there any oversea retailers that you have expeiance with and would recomend?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1777_0):
CAtuned carries E30garagenorway's parts stateside. Not sure who else - probably DeltaParkAuto in Canada because they carry a bunch of CAtuned stuff. Overseas: Valcasgarage E30garagenorway E30rescue timsclassicparts - also has a ton of general resto parts that you don't see a lot, like body stickers. geoffsteel - carbon and fiberglass bits - roof skin and bonnet. Maybe other stuff if you dig or ask. specialclassicparts - mostly smaller stuff classiceuroparts classicheroparts - I think this is all rep bodykits from taiwan/mrbodykits like CAtuned and Garagistic carry. Hard to tell at a glance who makes what, and who just resells stuff. Would be great if we could create a list of all the sources for this. It is hard to keep track of because afaik there's no compiled list out there, and it's not something you really look into until you need it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1777_1):
Great List You think one day you'll be able to get a fresh shell? You Can Build A Brand New Toyota AE86 With This $9,500 Body Shell On Alibaba - Jalopnik https://jalopnik.com/you-can-build-a-brand-new-toyota-ae86-with-this-9-500-1851658885 There isn’t much on Alibaba, Temu or Shein that you need in your life. The vast majority of the ultra cheap stuff coming from these Chinese bargain sellers is scam garbage that will make your life worse. But if you’ve got a rusty, clapped-out AE86 Toyota Corolla hatchback in need of restoration and rust repair, this brand new shell might be the ticket. The availability of brand new metal-stamped chassis isn’t new, as they have been available for things like Camaros and Mustangs for years. As the Probably rot out before Northern cars do with recycled US coke can China metal.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1777_2):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Great List Probably rot out before Northern cars do with recycled US coke can China metal. Can you compare the Chinese company that supplies auto panels to auto manufacturers and the amateur garage from Norway? https://aodunauto.en.alibaba.com/index.html

ANSWER 4 (id: 1777_4):
Originally posted by Vincenze Can you compare the Chinese company that supplies auto panels to auto manufacturers and the amateur garage from Norway? https://aodunauto.en.alibaba.com/index.html What's the chance everyone is getting their panel from the same factory?