QUESTION ID: 382

QUESTION:
I'm trying to remove the rear subframe, trailing arms, and differential as a whole unit but it doesn't seem to want to come out. I've undone the brake lines, diff mount, shocks, sway bar, driveshaft, 2 subframe bolts, speed sensors, exhaust, and removed the parking brake cables. Any thing I'm missing? Should I just start hitting the subframe with a mallet? :twisted:

ANSWER 1 (id: 382_0):
get a side cutting drill bit and cut out the bushings. They are probably stuck on the posts. After the subframe is out, then break out the BFH and go to town on the posts, then work on getting the corroded nubs out of the slots in the chassis. If you are pulling the subframe, this would be a good time to replace the bushings (I assume you haven't yet)

ANSWER 2 (id: 382_1):
smack it with a mallet, spray some penetrating oil into the bolts. you can also take the rear seat out and smack the bolts from the bottom (thread a nut on them) to knock them out. you might also have to wiggle the subframe around a bit. it's not too hard, but beware, it's going to be pretty heavy with all the parts on there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 382_2):
A lady's foot tool really helps when jerking the subframe loose. Those bushes are pressed to the body, they've had the cars weight on them for 15 years, and they need a hell of a jerk to come loose (usually).

ANSWER 4 (id: 382_3):
I let the subframe bolts soak in penetrating oil overnight, so it sounds like I need to just start pounding/prying away. I just wanted to make sure I wasn't forgetting anything ;)

ANSWER 5 (id: 382_4):
Spray it with PB 40, then place a jack under trailing arm, release the rear shock, the tension on the springs will push down and brake it free. at least that's what i did.

ANSWER 6 (id: 382_5):
Originally posted by Skafrog get a side cutting drill bit and cut out the bushings. They are probably stuck on the posts. After the subframe is out, then break out the BFH and go to town on the posts, then work on getting the corroded nubs out of the slots in the chassis. If you are pulling the subframe, this would be a good time to replace the bushings (I assume you haven't yet) word. only be careful with BFH. those posts are a PITA to get out of the body if they break. try to try the posts out first and spray some PB Blaster to try to help. And pop those bolts up too.