QUESTION ID: 2749

QUESTION:
Common sense says if these buildings couldn't take the weight of snow, nobody in the northeast would build them. But on the other hand... People are dumb. What do you guys think? I put in the (now crooked) support beam as some insurance.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2749_0):
You're fine, assuming it was built correctly. Though if you really want to take full advantage of that self-added column, move it to the center (depth-wise) of the covering. The front edge only has half the tributary width as the center, and will never fail at that point if a homogeneous area load (i.e. snow) is applied to the structure.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2749_10):
Originally posted by rex I actually had a center beam too, but after some really strong wind, the center post somehow worked its way out (I cut to rough length and just pressure fit them) and fell on my car !! luckily it didn't leave a mark. So I got to thinking about how to properly set the post in place, and then I thought, you know, do I even need these things anyway? Lol, pressure fit them? The whole structure will flex in the wind making that pressure fit, as you found out, not a fit at all. If you want the center beam to actually reinforce the structure, you need to dig down 2 feet, set the beam in, lag bolt it to a top cross member, and then fill the hole with concrete. Or you know, just not worry about it, because the car port is probably pretty solid.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2749_12):
Originally posted by rex Engineering mindset. Thanks dude. I am literally a Structural Engineer. Don't overthink this. Pull that front column and be done with it. Less another poorly implemented column falls on your car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2749_2):
Woohoo! Someone local. I live outside of philly. That being said I can't imagine that we would ever get enough snow to make that cave in. I would however add another beam when possible just for the insurance. At least yours has a roof over it, mine just sits on the driveway under a covercraft cover.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2749_3):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is You're fine, assuming it was built correctly. Though if you really want to take full advantage of that self-added column, move it to the center (depth-wise) of the covering. The front edge only has half the tributary width as the center, and will never fail at that point if a homogeneous area load (i.e. snow) is applied to the structure. someones an engineer! yeah I'd add one more in the middle if you're nervous about it

ANSWER 6 (id: 2749_7):
My SO's sister has a very similar looking car port, with no extra added center beam, and she lives in Littleton, NH. Crazy amounts of snow. I think you're fine.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2749_8):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is You're fine, assuming it was built correctly. Though if you really want to take full advantage of that self-added column, move it to the center (depth-wise) of the covering. The front edge only has half the tributary width as the center, and will never fail at that point if a homogeneous area load (i.e. snow) is applied to the structure. Engineering mindset. Thanks dude. I actually had a center beam too, but after some really strong wind, the center post somehow worked its way out (I cut to rough length and just pressure fit them) and fell on my car !! luckily it didn't leave a mark. So I got to thinking about how to properly set the post in place, and then I thought, you know, do I even need these things anyway?

ANSWER 8 (id: 2749_9):
Originally posted by 2mAn Why not add a few more support columns? Originally posted by CMBusch Woohoo! Someone local. I live outside of philly. That being said I can't imagine that we would ever get enough snow to make that cave in. I would however add another beam when possible just for the insurance. At least yours has a roof over it, mine just sits on the driveway under a covercraft cover. Originally posted by wworm someones an engineer! yeah I'd add one more in the middle if you're nervous about it Originally posted by nando Add another post in the middle, I think it will be OK. but you're smart to think of that, a lot of people wouldn't.. Originally posted by Kershaw My SO's sister has a very similar looking car port, with no extra added center beam, and she lives in Littleton, NH. Crazy amounts of snow. I think you're fine. Good looking out, thanks yall