QUESTION ID: 2407

QUESTION:
My window washer hose seems to be broken or detached in the area behind the hood insulation. Can I just pull on the area around the clips and detach this and re-attach it easily? I pulled a little and then got a little anxious when it didn't release easily? Would love to be able to use my window washer fluid again, haha! The insulation itself is in good shape as well, would hate to destroy it in the process. Any help is appreciated. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2407_0):
make sure you have another set of clips(pins to reattach. they may break when removing them. the whole thing should come off easily... sent from hell using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 2407_1):
Originally posted by cheffy30 make sure you have another set of clips(pins to reattach. they may break when removing them. the whole thing should come off easily... sent from hell using Tapatalk Thanks for the heads up, that makes sense, especially if I have to use some force to pull them out. . Do you mean these? Part #51481915964. https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/par...&q=51481915964

ANSWER 3 (id: 2407_3):
Originally posted by cheffy30 yes. those. you might be able to find em at a good auto parts store. sent from hell using Tapatalk Mine had a mice nest underneath it when I bought the car, it was disgusting, plus there was a hole in it. ! I dumped it and went with the three panel foam insulation pieces instead.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2407_4):
Originally posted by Staszek Mine had a mice nest underneath it when I bought the car, it was disgusting, plus there was a hole in it. ! I dumped it and went with the three panel foam insulation pieces instead. Is that a OEM option too?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2407_5):
Originally posted by pj29 Is that a OEM option too? Yes, some cars had just adhered foam panels, and others had the cloth type sound insulation, normally with adhered foam panels underneath. I think the cloth panel was pretty much a higher trim level car thing, since it seems like 318i and ETA models didn't get one from the factory, but there was probably some factory variation in installation.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2407_6):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Yes, some cars had just adhered foam panels, and others had the cloth type sound insulation, normally with adhered foam panels underneath. I think the cloth panel was pretty much a higher trim level car thing, since it seems like 318i and ETA models didn't get one from the factory, but there was probably some factory variation in installation. Yea my 325is came with the cloth. I personally like the foam look better (maybe because my cloth was a mess). https://www.ecstuning.com/b-genuine-...waAiT1EALw_wcB