QUESTION ID: 3625

QUESTION:
Hi all, As some know, I am in the midst of an M62 swap on my 87 325is. Since, I have decided to go all out and change the color of the car (while the engine is out) because I can't totally sell out to the Bronzit. I don't hate it, but I don't love it either. Personally, I think "Blues" are tricky to pull off on an e30, but I am always drawn towards them. My original inspiration is this pastel green/blue e21. I have also purchased a set of Schmidt TH Lines and am planning a custom colored interior. Another inspiration for car color is the Singer Racing Blue, but after about 20 hours of searching for a paint code and reaching out to Singer, I have had no luck. Anyone have any thoughts on a color that would look amazing on an e30? Originally, I wanted to go with a retro style color. Thanks for any help! If this helps, I also have ordered some euro chrome bumpers and I am thinking about an Mtech 1 kit. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 1 (id: 3625_1):
I am a big fan of browns, I think the e30 looks great with bahamabeige metallic or zobelbraun metallic. Porsche Macadamia Metallic is a great color as well

ANSWER 2 (id: 3625_10):
Originally posted by noid Light blue is tricky, fine line between cute and cool. 100% EXACTLY!! I like I light blue with grey in it. I explain it as dirty robin egg blue. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 3 (id: 3625_11):
As for the Meissenblau code 317, it is so difficult to get a feel for it with internet pictures. This is what I mean, both of these pictures are claiming to be Meissenblau. The first one I do not like the second one it exactly what I am looking for! I am okay with this one as well and it seems to be in between. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 4 (id: 3625_12):
Originally posted by Mr. Wolfe Thanks gart. Any chance you could attach some pictures? I am doing searches, but I am a little unsure whether I am getting the correct colors or not. As for the tan/yellow, that does look cool, but I think it is too close to Bronzit. Mr. Wolfe I'm just looking them up on my mixing station computer. I don't have the books for anything that old but I can look through current ones in a bit to see if anything stands out. You could also just pick something out of a solids book like this. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3625_2):
Originally posted by dkexige Riviera Blue? This was an original color on BMW 2002s That is a nice color and I will look into it again, thanks. Originally posted by w140 I am a big fan of browns, I think the e30 looks great with bahamabeige metallic or zobelbraun metallic. Porsche Macadamia Metallic is a great color as well For some reason, I really want to do a non-metallic paint on this car. I have been looking at a lot of 60's Porsche and VW colors. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 6 (id: 3625_7):
Here's what I found. Gulfblau 73-75 Porsche code 036 seems brighter though. I think elfenbein 72-73 Porsche would look great code 046. It's a tan/yellow color. Also tuerkis 72 Porsche code 064 is closer to the singer color I think. Maybe a little More turquoise but is cool. Also check meissenblau 62-63 Porsche code 317. And for giggle but might actually look good. China pink perleffekt 08 Porsche code z88. Hope this helps some. Let me know if you have any other questions or need something looked up.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3625_9):
Thanks gart. Any chance you could attach some pictures? I am doing searches, but I am a little unsure whether I am getting the correct colors or not. As for the tan/yellow, that does look cool, but I think it is too close to Bronzit. Mr. Wolfe