QUESTION ID: 3408

QUESTION:
So it pains me to report that I think I might have fucked up my tranny on my 318i trying to install a SSK. Essentially what happened was I followed Pelican instructions and everything went smoothly until I tried to take out the shaft seal around the selector shaft/rod and was unsuccessful. I picked at that seal with everything I could get my hands on and for the life of me I could not remove the damn fucking thing. So I then decided to put the new seal that I had bought over it and force it into place by a deep socket wrench as Pelican recommends. Things went into place and I effectively forced that shaft seal into the tranny and figured it wouldn't be too much since it will probably just get churned up by the gears since its just plastic. After installation, I noticed every time I shifted in 2nd or 4th and let go of the clutch it would grind like mad. So I though maybe the short shift kit was too short and that I had to switch back to the stock and drop the SSK idea. Yesterday I switched back to the stock shift lever and it still grinds like mad when you let go of the clutch in 2nd or 4th. It sounds as if the gear just won't sit in and causes the grind. I don't have any problems with 1, 3, or 5 which leads me to believe that perhaps the old shaft seal that I forced into the tranny is preventing the selector shaft to seat completely in the right place when I shift into 2nd or 4th. I never had this problem before the SSK install so this is definitely something new. I figured I just ask around here and see if anyone pretty much agrees that I'm a fucking idiot or is there something else that could be wrong that I'm not thinking of. Currently, I'm considering taking the damn thing to the shop to drop the tranny and crack it open to get the fucking shaft seal out of there. I'm so fucking mad, it's not even funny. I can only cruise in first or third or fifth, odd I know :)

ANSWER 1 (id: 3408_0):
only gears you need really. But yea, that little seal is strong enough to fuck up synchros/forks I would fill the tranny up through the over flow and run it and hope that shit shakes loose. , then drain

ANSWER 2 (id: 3408_2):
I did 1st, 3rd, and 5th (No reverse), for a full winter in my old beater probe. I TOTALLY Understand your pain. (The tranny was dying and just decided to never let me shift into them again, I still managed to get 500 for the car after winter, when I paid 300 for it when it had all it's gears)

ANSWER 3 (id: 3408_3):
Originally posted by Vtec?lol only gears you need really. But yea, that little seal is strong enough to fuck up synchros/forks I would fill the tranny up through the over flow and run it and hope that shit shakes loose. , then drain And a bitch to remove too huh Matt? :-o

ANSWER 4 (id: 3408_4):
How far in did you push the seal? I've heard of lots of guys just tapping the new seal on over the old one with no issues.. I always remove them, but I've heard that there is plenty of room on the shift shaft for 2 seals.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3408_5):
Originally posted by rThor432 How far in did you push the seal? I've heard of lots of guys just tapping the new seal on over the old one with no issues.. I always remove them, but I've heard that there is plenty of room on the shift shaft for 2 seals. I shoved that shit all the way in with a screw driver in utter frustration. I'd say it's in about 1 centimeter.