QUESTION ID: 1130

QUESTION:
Greetings! I'd like to share my new project, a 1990 E30 M3. I've been a tech at an independent shop for 15 years. This M3 has been sitting in our lot, abandoned, for 6 or 7 years. The PO was going to turn it into a race car, but then abandoned it. The motor was removed for an M2002 project. So, it was dying a slow, painful death. I JUST HAD TO SAVE IT!! It has a CR Getrag, manual steering, coilovers etc. Through the years, I've managed to save some good used parts. There was a totaled, wrecked M3 that I was able to get the interior and other stuff out of, before it was hauled off. I have about 95% of the stuff I need and some other goodies. I found an S14 b20 to use. First order of business.....Rebuild the motor and turn it into a 2.3. Oxidized, white paint. S14 b20

ANSWER 1 (id: 1130_12):
Originally posted by jhaurimn Id keep the interior stripped and turn it into a track car. Its getting damn near impossible to replace an entire m3 interior nowadays... I have most of the interior that I took out of a wreck. Just needs reupholstering. Corbeau sport seats, rear seats have headrests:D carpet needs to be dyed, etc. The only parts I really need are some A/C bits, and the usual engine rebuild stuff. Most items just need some elbow grease and reconditioning/rebuilding.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1130_3):
How much did it cost you to acquire this piece of automotive history? Remember. it was dying a slow painful death. She was about to be hauled away. Images of the movies Corvette Summer and Christine. I just had to pay the title transfer. glad to see you bringing it back! Any rust issues to speak of? If you're in Houston I would think you'd be pretty good Yeah, Houston is good. No body rust. just surface rust on nuts and bolts and some suspension.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1130_5):
When you pull that horse shoe out your ass send it my way, would love a free e30 m3!! Keep this thread updated everyone here will be watching! Congrats.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1130_6):
Originally posted by 613EDRTY When you pull that horse shoe out your ass send it my way, would love a free e30 m3!! Keep this thread updated everyone here will be watching! Congrats. Lol.. not exactly free. I still have a lot of sweat equity and missing parts ahead of me. I only have a few hours per week to work on it, but luckily, I have mad skills. :devil:

ANSWER 5 (id: 1130_9):
Originally posted by jhaurimn Id keep the interior stripped and turn it into a track car. Its getting damn near impossible to replace an entire m3 interior nowadays... impossible and expensive are very different