QUESTION ID: 3293

QUESTION:
They don't call them "universal package smashers" for nothing. I used to ship a lot of parts with them. Being an account holder, The thing that really made my blood boil was that I would get a quote, the buyer would pay, then I would invariably get a bill in the mail 3 weeks later because some shit fuck decided I underpaid them by 2-12 bucks. Every fucking time. Those cock chewers..... My dilemma has always been that my local ups store gives fantastic service and is staffed with really good people. On the other hand, the neighborhood FedEx store is manned with a building full of worthless ghetto assholes. FedEx has never ever fucked with me over shipping charges. As an account holder, I find fedex to actually be a good deal cheaper anyway. Basically, I've come to the very sad "Walmart" conclusion that REALLY shitty service is better that getting punched in the nuts a few weeks down the road. Ups can f'ing burn in hell. Besides, as a pilot in the industry, I cringe every time I see one of their guys walking around the airport in a shit brown uniform. They look like they just flew out of someone's ass and somehow missed the toilet.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3293_1):
added the snippet about brown pilot uniforms edit: half the shit i post, i wind up going back and editing something. usually a spelling or grammar error.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3293_10):
Originally posted by flyboyx They don't call them "universal package smashers" for nothing. I used to ship a lot of parts with them. Being an account holder, The thing that really made my blood boil was that I would get a quote, the buyer would pay, then I would invariably get a bill in the mail 3 weeks later because some shit fuck decided I underpaid them by 2-12 bucks. Every fucking time. Those cock chewers..... My dilemma has always been that my local ups store gives fantastic service and is staffed with really good people. On the other hand, the neighborhood FedEx store is manned with a building full of worthless ghetto assholes. FedEx has never ever fucked with me over shipping charges. As an account holder, I find fedex to actually be a good deal cheaper anyway. Basically, I've come to the very sad "Walmart" conclusion that REALLY shitty service is better that getting punched in the nuts a few weeks down the road. Ups can f'ing burn in hell. Besides, as a pilot in the industry, I cringe every time I see one of their guys walking around the airport in a shit brown uniform. They look like they just flew out of someone's ass and somehow missed the toilet. I literally could not agree with flyboyx any harder. FedEx is also on the big corporate side and you feel like a nobody when dealing with them like most big company's, but from having an account with them through my work that I use, and speaking to managers on the phone etc they are always very accommodating when something is not right and will do what it takes to make stuff right. More importantly from working in a office/warehouse my entire life and dealing with shippers I can tell you flat out that the way FedEx drivers carry themselves and handle merchandise clean versus the UPS guys. But I will say this is something that can vary from city to city and states and demographics etc I don't doubt it. I don't want to speak for both shippers as I am sure theirs bad and good depending on the area or employee. LMFAO "I cringe every time I see one of their guys walking around the airport in a shit brown uniform. They look like they just flew out of someone's ass and somehow missed the toilet." That really made my day :rofl::rofl:

ANSWER 3 (id: 3293_2):
I've shipped probably 100 packages with fedex and never had a single problem with lost or damaged items. Hoping I don't jinx myself! USPS is actually cheapest in a lot of cases, but fuck standing in like for 45 minutes to save $2. I just print a label and drop it off. I always just guess at the weight (I'm usually really close) and never get screwed on an overcharge.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3293_3):
I've been religiously using bikeflights.com who is a fedex reseller who offers a significant discount from fedex themselves. I buy w PayPal, get a label via email in 10 minutes and then just drop it at the fedex counter. Their support is great and for an extra $5 they pickup which was very handy when I shipped a 95lb diff :)

ANSWER 5 (id: 3293_9):
Originally posted by ELVA164 Aside from the stratospheric prices, we've always had good luck with UPS. It looks like I should be thankful... Seconded that. UPS delivers to my fiances store almost everyday, and the driver is always courteous and talkative and cheery overall. Packages are 99.9% damage free and dropped off on time. FedEx drivers are a different story unfortunately. Driver once knocked over a 1500 dollar display (custom glass shelves, etc.) with about 1000 dollars worth of breakable merchandise on it. That was a pain in the ass to deal with.