QUESTION ID: 333

QUESTION:
Im trying to track down a mild vibration in my car above 80 mph.....BUT when checking for play in tie rods/bearings/ ball jts, do you hold each wheel at 12 and 6, or 3 and 9 to check for movt? And should there be zero play or minimal.....I can detect very minimal play at tie rod( I think its tie rod). TIA

ANSWER 1 (id: 333_0):
Originally posted by JoelRKaplan when checking for play in tie rods/bearings/ ball jts, do you hold each wheel at 12 and 6, or 3 and 9 to check for movt? And should there be zero play or minimal.....I can detect very minimal play at tie rod( I think its tie rod). TIA If you can detect any play then it's too much play.

ANSWER 2 (id: 333_1):
Originally posted by arsevader If you can detect any play then it's too much play. is that true?....... I mean I detect it ever so very SLIGHTLY; who knows , maybe someone else would not even feel it. This is when experience means so much. Once I can be shown what is play and whats not, Ill get it. But I hear you.....if its detected, its too much. I guess I m trying too hard to save on not buying new tie rods.

ANSWER 3 (id: 333_2):
Originally posted by JoelRKaplan is that true?....... I don't have the specs off hand but basically if your hands can detect the play then it's more than likely to be out of spec.

ANSWER 4 (id: 333_3):
Its your track car, Joel - you really want to cheap out on something like tie rods? They are pretty cheap in the grand scheme of things. OT - any luck with that dead pedal?

ANSWER 5 (id: 333_4):
play Dave..... damn.....why'd you have to say that. You are right though.....Im just feeling a bit cheap these days, but its stupid. Ill just replace them. Gave the pics to a shop.....he looked at me like I had 2 heads......we'll see. BTW...they were great photos.

ANSWER 6 (id: 333_6):
Originally posted by FifeDog236 Tie rods are like a hundred bucks for the pair from BMA. If you cant spring for that, you probably shouldnt own a car. ....dont jump on so hard; I never said I couldnt afford them.......Im just trying to narrow the shit down between tie rods/lca, flex disc, bearings etc..........thanks for the help.

ANSWER 7 (id: 333_7):
Put the front end up and the car on jack stands. Have somebody else wiggle the wheels at 3 and 9 while you put your hands on all the joints. Grab the outer ball joints, tie rod ends, and inner tie rods (just grab the boot and feel where the ball joint is in there). Just have someone jiggle each wheel for a while so you can feel around and you can track down the problem that way. Also it's possible you have play in your steering rack and replacing the tie rods won't help, I think you need to replace the whole rack if you want to fix.

ANSWER 8 (id: 333_8):
Originally posted by JoelRKaplan ....just trying to narrow the shit down between tie rods/lca, flex disc, bearings etc..........thanks for the help. can vibration be felt in steering wheel? .