QUESTION ID: 3531

QUESTION:
Hi everyone, I've done a lot of reading but have never owned an e30. There aren't that many available in my area and I don't mind doing some renovation work as long as I'm not being unrealistic. That said I found a car in the Atlanta area and have talked with the owner. I think for about $500 I can walk away with the car but there are some problems I wanted your advise on: 1. The shifter has a TON of play 2. The car seems to have been hit right behind the front left wheel and the alignment is definitely off (tire wear) but I can't tell if the frame was impacted. Body looks straight. 3. Car runs really well and when you get over the dingy shifter it drives nicely. 4. Interior is trashed but I'm okay rehabbing (family in the upholstery business) 5. Trunk has substantial water pooled level across the back of the trunk up to the battery box. I can't tell if it has caused rust. 6. the underside of the car is rust free. The car has ~170k miles on the m20 engine and is a 325es spec. 1986 gives it the really rough looking fiberglass bumpers. Thanks for your help!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3531_1):
86 definitely didnt come with fiberglass bumpers. for $500 you really cant go wrong even if you end up needing to part it out but you have a lot to learn if you want to get into this. the shifter play is nothing.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3531_7):
You have the cash in hand and it's a good running/driving e30? I don't see the problem here. Even if the car blows up you didn't get hurt too bad, you could probably even part it out for a couple hundred and that's the worst case. Wish I could find something like this..

ANSWER 3 (id: 3531_9):
Looks like it's missing the "es" front spoiler. Too bad. It's a $500, 30 year old car. Don't be surprised at the amount of work it will need, but if you are handy and don't mind spending the time learning and wrenching is something you enjoy, it could be a great buy. Heck, even if you don't it could be a great buy. These cars are built like tanks. When's the last time the timing belt was replaced?