QUESTION ID: 3570

QUESTION:
Alright r3v, I need some help. I stumbled upon a very clean 6 speed 335i coupe for sale with 100k miles while I was on a drive. And it just got me wondering "what if I had one...?" So I hopped on YouTube and checked out reviews and stuff and it seems like a really fun car. But there weren't any detailed videos on problems the car may have. I heard the turbos sometimes have issues but besides that, I haven't heard much else. Do you guys know of any more problems? Just want to be sure before I decide whether or not I really want to do this. Thanks for any help/input!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3570_1):
Turbos seemed to need replacement often on these cars. Also, they use an electric water pump which are pricey and 100k is around the mileage they tend to fail. The rest of the cooling system as with any bmw. Ask about those maintenance items and it'll be a plus if they have been taken care of. They are fun cars. I was offered many of these for my e46 m3. I don't know if that's because people were trying to get rid of them or they are comparable to an e46 m3. Take it as you will. Edit: I also know they take mods really well with a tune.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3570_10):
JB4 tune on the N54 is monstrous. These cars are amazing. Yes you need to assume injectors, coil packs, and a walnut blast of the intake valves will be needed as well at this mileage. Also high press fuel pump as has been stated. A JB4 tuned 335 will absolutely decimate an e46 m3. Guys are making 500+ hp in these with stock turbos, a tune and e85.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3570_11):
Originally posted by Cephas JB4 tune on the N54 is monstrous. These cars are amazing. Yes you need to assume injectors, coil packs, and a walnut blast of the intake valves will be needed as well at this mileage. Also high press fuel pump as has been stated. A JB4 tuned 335 will absolutely decimate an e46 m3. Guys are making 500+ hp in these with stock turbos, a tune and e85. Man, it sounds like you're really good buddies with someone who has one :D :D:D:D OP all of this x2 with Cephas comments. I've owned a full bolt-on E90 '07 335i that is closing in on 150k miles for a few years now. And I absolutely LOVE it. Click here for more details on my build thread. These 335's have become stupid STUPID cheap for the money. And with the N54 power plant under the hood, it is insanely detuned from the factory. If you are really seriously looking into getting one of these, the best thing to do is read, read, read up on them. E90post.com will be the most user friendly place to start. N54tech.com gets a bit more technical. And then the N54 section of bimmerboost.com gets uber technical and starts speaking a foreign language. That said, if you get a used, out of warranty 335 plan on setting aside another $2,000-$2,500 for maintenance items out of the box. Don't take that as being unreliable. But when buying used you just never know the history unless you're buying from an anal previous owner who keeps an online journal (like I do!). OP do you have a link to a specific car you're looking at?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3570_12):
So the one I was interested in was sold. Maybe was for the best because I still need to think about the expenses and also selling my e30 because parking is crazy near my house and my landlord is an asshole. I just can't justify having 2 cars at the moment. But I went on CL and found this 2007 BMW 335i e92 $13500 http://sfbay.craigslist.org/eby/cto/5521979179.html This is what I would go for. I just think I need to give it 2-3 more months to sort out some stuff and I may find myself being a part of the no e30 club here on r3v.. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3570_13):
Just came across this link Automotive Repair Shop in Atlanta, GA - Specialists You Can Trust and Count On http://www.markertmotorworks.com/#!bmw-135i-335i-535i-service-problems-list/c9wa TRUE Automotive offers expert auto repair services with several locations in Decatur, Lawrenceville, Marietta, Atlanta, Suwanee, & Woodstock. Sent from my SM-G935V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 3570_2):
I owned one from 60k-85k miles and didn't have too many issues, but there are a lot of things that can get really expensive, especially if you are not going to be doing the work yourself. The previous owner of my car had clutch issues at around 40k, however I don't think this is normal. The ignition coils seem to go out pretty early on these cars - at around 40-60k. The HPFP is infamous on the N54s (not sure about the N55s). BMW has put a longer warranty on this part, but I don't know if labor is included. As others have stated, the turbos tend to go out on these even as early as 60k. OFH seals will always go out on these guys and oil outside the front of the engine can easily be spotted. However, the internal seals will also leak causing coolant to mix with the oil or vise versa. Carbon build up in the intake which will make the car run/idle rough. Would recommend that this gets cleaned every 50k. That is all I can think of for now, specific to these cars, but at 100k you also need to start considering all the rubber bushing. There are some guides up now on how to get the diagnostic software running for these cars at no cost, plus inexpensive cables, so that you can do all the labor and troubleshooting yourself.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3570_3):
So turns out the car has already had the HPFP replaced and turbos have been kept up to date with maintenance along with the rest of the car (water pump, cooling system, routine oil changes, etc.) The only thing holding me back is the love for my e30 that I would have to sell in order to get the 335... Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 3570_4):
They can be expensive to maintain, they're great cars, but like any bmw they have issues. I'd add to that list above the "cam ledges" wear out. I think that means cam bearings? I'm not too sure but my mom's 08 335 sedan had them done. She's had hers from 50k miles to 130k with some issues, just had the rear wheel bearings done and a bunch of new seals on the motor to stop minor oil leaks. Power steering pump and water pump break, flush the ps fluid like every oil change and it supposedly helps lol She hasn't had any turbo issues besides a vacuum line leak causing a cel, but she doesn't beat it (that I know of lol) and pretty much all her driving is 30+mile trips so it's never cold cycled and I can't picture that it's parked with teh turbos glowing and thereby coking the oil. I will say that its pretty stinking quick all stock and is a sweet daily. I'd love to hear it with a tune and exhaust. That said, I just bought an e46m3 and would take it over the e90 335 every single time. I'm rather partial to the e46 though

ANSWER 9 (id: 3570_5):
Originally posted by e30tru turbos have been kept up to date with maintenance Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk how does one maintain a turbo? IMO it either works or it's failed. If it's never been replaced, budget that into your decision too. Not to mention various suspension rubber bushings

ANSWER 10 (id: 3570_6):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella how does one maintain a turbo? IMO it either works or it's failed. If it's never been replaced, budget that into your decision too True. And never park it after railing on it without letting it idle/otherwise cool down. But if they need replacement, may as well do some bigger ones! THe stockers make nice boost with pretty quick response in the low end, but past ~5k rpm they run out of air and it doesn't reward you to redline it. Not as much fun as a real motor that loves to rev.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3570_8):
Oh. And if you are looking to tune, go for the N54! Among other things, BMW went cheap on some of the internals on the N55 and you can't get too much more power out of them without having to start replacing internal components. It really is a fun car, especially with a tune. But the depreciation on newer cars kills me on the inside and after going back to NA, I've kind of lost interest in turbos.