QUESTION ID: 2747

QUESTION:
I have agreed value insurance from Hagerty on my Datsun. I dont know why they are giving you a hard time about it

ANSWER 1 (id: 2747_1):
Originally posted by Ygtbsm1969 I had my M3 insured at 75 with a swapped engine and all the not stock stuff so I figured that the ACS in its original rare condition on insurance should be that at least and I was hoping for 5-10 more but they just cut it in half or actually 1/4 my m3 But it's not in original condition, and it does have some substantial cosmetic flaws. Let's consider, a repainted RHD M20 powered touring with no AC, no mods and the same undercarriage condition as your car, maybe 8k, probably slightly less. The ACS stuff adds another 5k perhaps, and provenance/rarity adds maybe 4k more. So, 17k in the US and there you have it. So, I think trying to get a valuation at 80k is very unreasonable. Could it fetch more in the UK, probably. Maybe start your dedicated thread and have a poll at the top asking what value range people think it falls in to?

ANSWER 2 (id: 2747_10):
Originally posted by Powling If the reserve was around $60k and the guy disclosed that to BAT then its on BAT for being dumb to still list it. If he didn't tell BAT the reserve (or even state that he wanted a reserve) then its his fault and has no place to complain. By the sounds of his old posts, before he deleted them, he didn't actually want to sell it as we was too in love with it. Either way, a waste of time for BAT bidders for sure. He said he was absolutely smitten, and said he would give it to his crash prone son after the auction. The very next day he said he wanted to sell it in the UK, and the day after he was talking insurance valuation. So it seems that he wants to sell it, but only at what seems like an unrealistic price.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2747_11):
It's obviously worth a lot more to him than to an actual buyer, evidenced by his PM to me changing the values in my hypothetical math to come up with a $75k valuation.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2747_2):
I am not really sure what the point of this thread is, but are you implying that your wagon is worth 146k Euros like the car in the link?? I guess it can be worth whatever makes you happy, just call State Farm and get an agreed value policy based on your number and get ready to pay accordingly. I have 3 cars with an agreed value policy, its no big deal as long as you pay the premium. Your link did not work for me, I think this is the car you are referring to: http://www.coys.co.uk/cars/1988-bmw-...hnitzer-s3-2-5

ANSWER 5 (id: 2747_3):
Originally posted by slippery I am not really sure what the point of this thread is, but are you implying that your wagon is worth 146k Euros like the car in the link?? I guess it can be worth whatever makes you happy, just call State Farm and get an agreed value policy based on your number and get ready to pay accordingly. I have 3 cars with an agreed value policy, its no big deal as long as you pay the premium. Your link did not work for me, I think this is the car you are referring to: http://www.coys.co.uk/cars/1988-bmw-...hnitzer-s3-2-5 He's always implying is car is worth that much, BAT spoke and it's not close to that. Sent from my SM-G950U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 2747_4):
That M3 sold for S165,000 with 46k miles. For the sake of the discussion and nice round numbers, let's say that the average price of an M3 is $50,000. $165,000/$50,000 = 3.3 multiplier over average for the rare version. Again, for the sake of the discussion and nice round numbers, let's say that the average price of a Touring is $10,000. That number with the rarity multiplier from above equals a $33,000 value. The values are hypothetical. The point I'm making here is that a high average value for the M3 means that rare versions only sold for 3.3 times as much as the average. If M3s were selling for $25k then the rarity multiplier would be 6.6, making the value of a rare touring $66,000 using that logic. I know Simon has been tracking sale prices across the various iterations. I'd be curious to know what the rarity multiplier is for the various models (the 318is, 325is, Touring, etc.).

ANSWER 7 (id: 2747_6):
Originally posted by agent I know Simon has been tracking sale prices across the various iterations. I'd be curious to know what the rarity multiplier is for the various models (the 318is, 325is, Touring, etc.). This was a great way to look at it, and I messaged this to George (OP), and its similar to yours. I simplified it a little to make the numbers easier to digest. Starting with BaT Average selling prices: 2018: M3 = $49,688 Touring = $16,625 2017: M3 = $40,630 Touring = $11,147 We know the ACS M3 sold for 160k. M3s are averaging around $40k at that time, so the multiplier is 4. Avg price of $11k for Tourings brings us to a theoretical price for your ACS Touring of $44k Now to adjust for the increase. Heres where it gets weird because in one year the avg price on the M3 increased to $49k (~22% increase), but the Touring went up to $16k (~49%!). However that doesnt directly translate accurately because the sample size for Tourings is small, and M3s are simply more valuable and had a large sample size, so its more accurate. Ideally, the ACS Touring would have gone up to $66k in value (not far from OPs estimate of $75k), but I simply dont see an Insurance Company insuring it for that much, and thats the issue he is having. Personally, Id push for a $60k value, and would settle on $50k as my bottom number.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2747_7):
Normally, I don't chime in on this type of stuff just out of politeness. But since the OP peaced out, I am going to have at it. My brother was one of the people bidding in the last 45 minutes of the auction. He has been looking for a touring and when I saw this pop up, I didn't even consider it sending it to him b/c I figured that it would ultimately go above the $10k he wants to spend on a touring. He ended up bidding up to around $12k before he tapped out in the last minute of the auction. He was also under the impression that there was no reserve, but I think that was just him not being familiar with the website. After seeing some of the insurance comments from the OP, I am pretty certain that the reserve was most likely upwards of 60K. Personally, and I can only speak for myself, but I think thats insane. The problem is that its not a factory built ACS. Sure, by the sum of its parts, I would have no problem calling it a true ACS car. But from a money standpoint, I don't think its even close to being worth one. I think it definitely requires a premium since you can't just go out and buy the ACS parts to assemble one yourself. But it most certainly does not bring a collector's premium. And since it sounded like ACS themselves didn't want to give their stamp of approval (unless I am mistaken on that part), what you have here unfortunately is a "sum of all parts" car. And those bidding on BAT, I think am safe to say, saw it the same way. Its a super cool car, but for whatever the reserve was I think an M3 is a lot more special. He had the right idea of keeping the car in the family and having it enjoyed. I, however, wouldn't consider this to be good investment.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2747_8):
If the reserve was around $60k and the guy disclosed that to BAT then its on BAT for being dumb to still list it. If he didn't tell BAT the reserve (or even state that he wanted a reserve) then its his fault and has no place to complain. By the sounds of his old posts, before he deleted them, he didn't actually want to sell it as we was too in love with it. Either way, a waste of time for BAT bidders for sure.