QUESTION ID: 3071

QUESTION:
Some of you probably follow their BMW/e30 projects on youtube. Nico's tools and keys to his touring project were recently stolen. A gofundme campaign has been created to help him buy some new tools to continue his progress on his awesome projects. https://www.gofundme.com/salt-city-euros-tool-donation

ANSWER 1 (id: 3071_1):
Originally posted by ahrensNW Lol, I should have started one of these when my wheels were stolen. Eyeroll. I used to really like the channel but ever since max left the quality has really gone down hill, it seems like every other video is just whining... my $0.02

ANSWER 2 (id: 3071_10):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy If I drop my ice cream, should I start a go fund me? You're out of timeout now? I'm surprised you didn't come back with a new avatar.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3071_11):
Originally posted by djjerme You're out of timeout now? I'm surprised you didn't come back with a new avatar. You totally missed the Nonsense Thread welcoming party for good ol' burg

ANSWER 4 (id: 3071_4):
Originally posted by Metallated I used to really like the channel but ever since max left the quality has really gone down hill, it seems like every other video is just whining... my $0.02 This ^

ANSWER 5 (id: 3071_5):
GoFunMe's are getting ridiculous now and days. Some people actually rely on these things, but it seems anyone who needs money now and days starts one. I feel bad for Nico, but next time he'll learn to lock his car. Especially on a car that has keyless entry.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3071_7):
Originally posted by Metallated I used to really like the channel but ever since max left the quality has really gone down hill, it seems like every other video is just whining... my $0.02 Exactly. I feel sorry for him having his stuff stolen, but I agree that every video just sounds like a whining fest of "now that Max is gone..." We get it man, your buddy left. Move on.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3071_8):
Send me $7 for a USPS and I will ship you a bunch of extra tools I have. 10mm 13mm 17mm etc... OH wait, you want ME to send YOU money?... sigh...nevermind