QUESTION ID: 1755

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, going to pick up my first project (E30 318i) next weekend and it's in pretty rough shape. At the moment it's essentially a rolling shell but the good thing is that it's pretty rust free other than a couple of patches where you'd expect. The plan is to get the bodywork and paint sorted and then I can think about engine gearbox etc. At the moment leaning towards M50/M52 (cheap, decent power, fits in pretty easy). I just wondered roughly how much should I expect to spend building the whole thing. Like I said at the moment it's just a shell with some ugly wheels on it, so interior and powertrain etc all missing. Would be nice to know what I'm getting myself into before I commit to anything (I'll probably commit anyway). First post here, any similar experiences or insights would be greatly appreciated. -bakerin

ANSWER 1 (id: 1755_0):
Is your roller 1984-85 or M42 based 1990-91? If you have an 84-85 you could make a light car as follows... I would get a running rusted out 325i parts car (with documented good compression) and start with the M20 325i setup. You could probably be up and running for 3K. An M20B25 with good compression in a light chassis is nothing to scoff at. If you have big money however, the possibilities are endless with these cars.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1755_2):
How much of the interior is missing? It would be pretty expensive to build a car from scratch by buying each piece. Swapping stuff from a rusty/crashed shell would be way cheaper. What are you trying to build? A stripped track rat? A functional cruiser? A fully functional daily driver? No engine swap is cheap, and it takes a ton of time, money, and commitment to build a car, let alone a chassis that you're unfamiliar with.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1755_3):
Originally posted by bakerin It's an 88 so the M40 I believe. Does any of that matter though considering it's just the bare shell with wheels? we never got that car here. it's an in between car. suspension could be the lighter version, the diff is probably the small case, and the rear brakes could be the drum. all or none of those differences could be present. you'll have to examine the car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1755_4):
Fourteen years ago I bought a e30 shell for $300. It had no interior, no engine, no front lights and no suspension. At that time e30 were available in junk yards. I was able to find everything I needed and it was cheap to buy. In the last four years no e30 come in to junkyards. your best luck is buy a complete wreaked e30 to swap parts you are missing.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1755_5):
Originally posted by e30m3s54turbo Fourteen years ago I bought a e30 shell for $300. It had no interior, no engine, no front lights and no suspension. At that time e30 were available in junk yards. I was able to find everything I needed and it was cheap to buy. In the last four years no e30 come in to junkyards. your best luck is buy a complete wreaked e30 to swap parts you are missing. This is what I was thinking but even a poor condition one will be a lot more than just a shell. I think the idea is to either just fork out a little more for a shell with an interior etc or just get the shell and hope I can find people parting them out near me

ANSWER 6 (id: 1755_6):
Your best chance is probably to find a complete car with a blown motor and an owner that just wants it gone. Great candidate for an engine swap and will come complete. I would search somewhere other than forums or FB groups where people know the value of these cars.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1755_7):
Originally posted by McGyver Your best chance is probably to find a complete car with a blown motor and an owner that just wants it gone. Great candidate for an engine swap and will come complete. I would search somewhere other than forums or FB groups where people know the value of these cars. Yeah this was what I was thinking. What sort of methods do you mean?

ANSWER 8 (id: 1755_8):
In the US, FB marketplace, Craigslist, leaving a note on a car that looks neglected, asking at a mechanic shop or someone's house that has a neglected car outside. Just be patient and keep an eye out.