QUESTION ID: 1214

QUESTION:
After ow3ning e30's for 20 years, I have finally purchased my dream car. I am the proud owner of an 88 M3. I have been caring for it as a race car for several years. Finally I own it. I am already starting to remove all of the track stuff and restore it to street trim. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1214_4):
Thanks guys. I don't know who teague is so I'm assuming it was not his. Autocheck shows only 2 titles , one in PA and My customer in Florida. (And soon to be Me). It still has an s-14 although it is not the original. Before I started taking care of it, The customer went through a series of bad engine builds. Excepting the engine, all the vin numbered parts are intact and in good shape. The car only has 135k on it. the engine was freshened when it went in 5 years ago and has only done 4 track days since then. Def worth the resto to me. I have done my best to make sure this car was never abused or destroyed. (never figured I would own it though). If anyone had any interior parts I could use them. Even If they are not in good shape. I have a friend that can make a mold and repop them in CF or FRP.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1214_5):
Originally posted by solo318 Thanks guys. I don't know who teague is so I'm assuming it was not his. Autocheck shows only 2 titles , one in PA and My customer in Florida. (And soon to be Me). It still has an s-14 although it is not the original. Before I started taking care of it, The customer went through a series of bad engine builds. Excepting the engine, all the vin numbered parts are intact and in good shape. The car only has 135k on it. the engine was freshened when it went in 5 years ago and has only done 4 track days since then. Def worth the resto to me. I have done my best to make sure this car was never abused or destroyed. (never figured I would own it though). If anyone had any interior parts I could use them. Even If they are not in good shape. I have a friend that can make a mold and repop them in CF or FRP. IMO you did well. Interior parts below the windows are interchangeable with standard E30s, so you could pick up seats, door cards, dash, console, etc. from parting-out sale and use them until you can source ///M parts (if you want M stuff). Sport seats from the cabriolet's looks exactly like M front seats, btw. The rear seat may be a problem though.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1214_7):
Looks good. Door cards are the same with the exception of the trim piece on the M3 is black not chrome, and the Vert seats are different, they look the same but they are different, the levers are in a different spot and the side handle is smaller on the verts then our M3's. There are many other little things that are the same and also different. The best recommendation I can give is to just pay attention closely to the parts that you need and the parts that you buy. Take lots of pictures and keep a good portfolio together that way you have something to show off in the end. Good luck and if you haven't already get over to S14.net.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1214_8):
Originally posted by Dussen Looks good. Door cards are the same with the exception of the trim piece on the M3 is black not chrome, and the Vert seats are different, they look the same but they are different, the levers are in a different spot and the side handle is smaller on the verts then our M3's. There are many other little things that are the same and also different. The best recommendation I can give is to just pay attention closely to the parts that you need and the parts that you buy. Take lots of pictures and keep a good portfolio together that way you have something to show off in the end. Good luck and if you haven't already get over to S14.net. Good point on the differences between 'vert and M3 seats. I don't know which chrome trim piece (on the door cards) you are referring to though.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1214_9):
Originally posted by markseven Good point on the differences between 'vert and M3 seats. I don't know which chrome trim piece (on the door cards) you are referring to though. The trim piece at the top of the cards. You can purchase the pieces for the back seat separate but I can't seem to find the fronts separate. check out instagram @dussenm3