QUESTION ID: 3445

QUESTION:
http://electrek.co/2016/06/06/tesla-...y-accelerated/

ANSWER 1 (id: 3445_1):
This is most likely just a case of driver error, but until they check everything, we don't know. Suspicious how he goes ahead and tries to tell Tesla to stop delivering Model X deliveries. I'm thinking the guy's pulling some sort of con.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3445_10):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec This is most likely just a case of driver error, but until they check everything, we don't know. Suspicious how he goes ahead and tries to tell Tesla to stop delivering Model X deliveries. I'm thinking the guy's pulling some sort of con. Originally posted by mrsleeve this is why the "self driving car" idea scares the hell out of me.................. Hahah. Logs were the first thing I thought about. What an embarrassment.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3445_11):
Originally posted by ak- Hahah. Logs were the first thing I thought about. What an embarrassment. Called it. It's funny how people always seem to forget that cops and manufacturers can always read your car after an accident just like a black box in a downed airplane.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3445_5):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec This is most likely just a case of driver error, but until they check everything, we don't know. Suspicious how he goes ahead and tries to tell Tesla to stop delivering Model X deliveries. I'm thinking the guy's pulling some sort of con. My thoughts exactly. Every time there's some yahoo out there claiming "unintended acceleration", it inevitably ends up being the fact that they're retarded and mixed up the pedals.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3445_7):
Lmao, the update at the end of the article made my day. "Tesla has reviewed the logs around the time of the accident and it shows that Model X driver hit the accelerator, Autopilot didn’t crash in building on its own" The only kind of person that would buy an suv with what appears to be gull wing rear doors is an asshole.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3445_8):
Gull wing rear doors are very useful. Originally posted by mrsleeve this is why the "self driving car" idea scares the hell out of me.................. Well it really should be drivers that scare you since this type of accident is nothing new and according to the data logs it's your standard pedal confusion accident. Blaming the car is nothing new either.