QUESTION ID: 3064

QUESTION:
Always had a soft spot for bugs. Some of these pictures might be photo shopped. Any R3V members have bugs? Post pics please.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3064_0):
here is my contribution: about 6 or 7 years ago, my crew and i were flying back to houston from guadalajara, mexico. another aircraft in the vicinity had a stuck microphone and accidentally told this story over air traffic control frequency. i thought it was funny as hell. so....the guy's mom has a bug convertible. if i remember right, they lived in tampa. one morning, they were getting ready to make breakfast and realized they were out of eggs and milk. the stepdad(who is like 6'7" tall skinny dude-think ichabod crane) volunteered to run to the store. mom's bug was parked behind his excursion so he decided to just take her car instead of switching everything around in the driveway. since he was so tall, he had no choice but to put the top down and look over the top of the windshield. apparently, he didn't look very masculine with this setup. he was sitting at a traffic light minding his own business, waiting for green when two teen age punks walk up beside him and yell: FAG!!!!!!! he never drove the car again

ANSWER 2 (id: 3064_2):
My old roommate had an old beetle. I rode in it with him from time to time. It was a huge piece of crap. Rust free, and the interior was decent for being almost 50 years old, but man was it a slow, boring piece of crap.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3064_3):
I was gonna say Be nice. Bugs have always been for the youth imo but I have always been a fan of their simplicity. I owned one 20 years ago. It was actually very fast....well at least it felt fast at the time. The one I had was just a 1600cc, dual port but the body was very light. I think the previous owner must have modified things a bit. I drove a 1815cc once and that car by comparison was slow. I owned it for a few months as it kept nickle and diming me... so I moved on to an E30 (m10) after that. Believe it or not the e30 was less expensive to maintain. Now here's a note. The bug would do 80 up hill....the e30 would barely break 62....I had to throw it in 4th gear and pull to the right lane while trucks would pass me by. Yes, the m10 was just way too slow, you really had to redline it daily just to make it sing.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3064_5):
Originally posted by agent We already have this thread: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=151946 I really don't understand why clarkston carries so much clout

ANSWER 5 (id: 3064_6):
Originally posted by Javier h I owned it for a few months as it kept nickle and diming me... so I moved on to an E30 (m10) after that. Believe it or not the e30 was less expensive to maintain. I'm really not surprised by this. My first "real" car was an 84 Rabbit. I loved it and only gave it the best parts, fluids, etc. The thing had relatively low mileage but something was ALWAYS broken. In the two years I owned it, I practically replaced almost everything on it (door handles, switches, visor, wheel bearings, struts, shocks...). Once i got my 86 325es that totally changed. No more small items breaking, only simple stuff like valve adjustments, oil changes and tune-ups were needed. And surprisingly the fuel economy of the big 2.7 was better than the 1.8 from the Rabbit. Since then I've sworn off all VW products.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3064_7):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella I'm really not surprised by this. My first "real" car was an 84 Rabbit. I loved it and only gave it the best parts, fluids, etc. The thing had relatively low mileage but something was ALWAYS broken. In the two years I owned it, I practically replaced almost everything on it (door handles, switches, visor, wheel bearings, struts, shocks...). Once i got my 86 325es that totally changed. No more small items breaking, only simple stuff like valve adjustments, oil changes and tune-ups were needed. And surprisingly the fuel economy of the big 2.7 was better than the 1.8 from the Rabbit. Since then I've sworn off all VW products. Funny, my experience has been the exact opposite. My family has had an '86 VW Jetta since about 1988. For most of that time period, it has needed almost nothing. It's needed a few more major things in the last few years, but I guess that's to be expected when it's got 500k miles. My E30 is the opposite. It's a POS and something is always going wrong. I handed it off to my dad since he wanted a project, and I didn't. Worst car I've ever owned, by far. Some of that may be bad luck though - the original high miles motor spun a bearing, as did it's freshened up (including bearings) replacement after about 1500 miles. I've never had a car what would actually be worse after fixing it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3064_8):
I was seriously in the market for a bug to daily drive leading up to buying my E30. My roommate had been daily driving his bus from Oside to OC every day and a buddy had a baja I helped build that was decent, so buying one and making it reliable didn't seem like a stretch, but all the cars I looked at just seemed really junky for how much they go for. Right as I was realizing that it might not be the best car for me I got word of this Calypso 325i for sale and that was sorta it. Drove my buddy's slammed '66 with a 1600 dual port a few weeks back and it was a lot of fun though.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3064_9):
My wife and I have 2012 Turbo 6spd- the engine is in the front but it is tons of fun. Going to have to get rid of it soon now that we have a kid on the way unfortunately.