QUESTION ID: 399

QUESTION:
I was planning on pulling the m20 out Thursday but Monday and wednesday are my only exams leaving tuesday open, and most of those days. So I was considering starting to pull the m20 out tommorow. Now Since I will have the exhuast, and driveshaft out putting the m30 in, I'm going to put in Urethane subframe and trailing arm bushings, plus some new halfshafts. The subframe bushings are allready installed in a extra subframe. Now I'm wondering how long on average does it take to overhual the rear end? I'm going out of town the 19th and won't be back till the 23rd I don't want to leave the brake system open during that time so If I start it I must be able to finish it be Friday evening. I've heard horror storries of getting subframes off, I've pulled two from my parts cars, one slid right off, and the other left the Inner sleave attached to the car. What do you guys think? Go ahead and tear it apart, or wait till thursday pull the m20, then on the 25th start removing the suspension?

ANSWER 1 (id: 399_0):
you could do it pretty quick if you had all the tools you needed, getting the new bushings in is easy, it's getting the old ones out that suck. I'd imagine you could easily do it all in a day if you were prepared.

ANSWER 2 (id: 399_1):
I've got the tools, so that's no problem. A spair subframe already has the new mounts installed in it, so I just have to burn out the old trailing arm bushings and slide in the new ones, plus I'm installing a m3 rear bar, new fuel filter, and rubber lines while I'm there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 399_2):
the trailing arm bushings are pretty easy, you can press them out with any puller in a few minutes, you just have to trim a bit off the bushings so the puller has somewhere to grip.

ANSWER 4 (id: 399_4):
My subframe swap was a bit of a PITA, I spend 3 days doing it, but took my time. On my 260k chassis that has had stiff springs half its life...dismembering the subframe from the body was a real workout, required a 'lady's foot' tool (leverage). Since you are using all urethane, putting it back together will be a snap.

ANSWER 5 (id: 399_5):
That's what I'm worried about is the removal. I'm going to wait till the 24th to start removing it, My grandparents are coming down wedneday morning, so I'd only have 4 days to work on it.