QUESTION ID: 366

QUESTION:
I ordered a set of new front wheel bearings from BMA, however I'm used to getting the BAV AUTO kits that has all the ancillary parts in it (dust cap, collar nut, etc). I can't recall all what was in there that needs to be replaced. Anyone have a list of the goods per side so I can get them ordered as well and get this taken care of asap? Thanks! -Prince

ANSWER 1 (id: 366_3):
A few more things... So, I'm looking at the hub assembly and I'm needing the cap and collar nut for sure. But isn't there also a nylon piece that goes between the stub-axle and the actual bearing assembly? Will the cap be already on the hub assembly? I have my sealed Meyle bag here and I recall that seal being just a thin piece of like rubber...which I don't see in the bag. -Prince

ANSWER 2 (id: 366_4):
I think the dust thing on the back is there sometimes, but I haven't done it on any of the wheel bearings I have pressed lately without any issues... or the one that is already there is reusable of something. The cap comes seperate from the hub assembly, you torque down the nut (with A LOT OF TORQUE) and then use loctite on the cap. Easy.

ANSWER 3 (id: 366_5):
Last time I did this I was replacing brake calipers and discs so my mind was focused on getting the brakes on and not what the bearing kit consisted of :) Thanks for your info uflnuceng. I'll get the cap and nut ordered and get this over and done with! -prince

ANSWER 4 (id: 366_6):
Originally posted by PrinceE30 A few more things... So, I'm looking at the hub assembly and I'm needing the cap and collar nut for sure. But isn't there also a nylon piece that goes between the stub-axle and the actual bearing assembly? Will the cap be already on the hub assembly? I have my sealed Meyle bag here and I recall that seal being just a thin piece of like rubber...which I don't see in the bag. -Prince The rear dust cover is a metal ring type thing that goes on the stub before pressing the hub/bearing on. It is needed. James

ANSWER 5 (id: 366_7):
After driving the car a few miles I've determined that it might not be the front bearing but the rear. I've heard this is a crazy hard job to pull off...but I've seen a few good how-tos. 1. Is this a feasable job over the course of a day? 2. What parts are actually needed (even if I have someone else do it I'll use my BMA discount to procure the parts before hand)? Edit: http://www.teamdfl.com/bmw/e30/rear_...ngs/parts.html - using this list Thanks! -Prince

ANSWER 6 (id: 366_9):
This is freaking riduculous... I can't find a complete set of these 4 parts from BAVAUTO or BMA. Does anyone have a good place to source these from that won't be from a BMW dealer? From RealOEM I have the following: 33 41 1 128 346 (LOCK RING) 33 41 1 124 358 (ANGULAR CONTACT BALL BEARING,RADIAL) 33 41 1 125 664 (COLLAR NUT) 33 41 1 124 945 (SECURING PLATE) -Prince