QUESTION ID: 1395

QUESTION:
So I'm thinking it's time to replace bushing in my 91. Currently all the bushings look like original rubber bushings. I have no documentation that they have ever been replaced. There are lots of little clunks and vagueness in turns that make me think they are performing a lot less than off the showroom floor quality now that the car is at 175k. Right now I am in the process of replacing the center bearing and guibo. So while I'm down there I was thinking of starting with the transmission bushings. Next I intend on tackling the rear subframe, control arm, and final drive bushings. Then I'll work my way up to the front. Down the road I intend on putting HR Cab springs, Koni orange struts, and x brace. My question is rubber or poly? Currently the car suspension is bone stock. I don't intend on ever tracking the car. I do want it to be much more responsive than it is currently, but I'm guessing either will probably help with that. I've been eyeing the Garagtastic 80A autox/street poly bushings specifically. I have read that poly will last longer and that is appealing, but that it transmits more noise and vibration. Everything I read is pretty vague on what that means exactly though. Something in me thinks that how bad could the noise be in comparison to having some canvas over my head as the only thing keeping wind and road noise out. It isn't as if the convertible is a quiet leader anyway. Is poly grossly louder? Is it uncomfortably vibration prone for a daily driven street car? Is is possible or advisable to mix rubber and poly in different locations, or just go one way or the other? Just so confused.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1395_0):
I need to do the same on mine, especially the rear. I’ve read horror stories about removing the old subframe bushings and the rtabs look like a pita also. Anyway I keep putting it off. When I do do it though, I will certainly go rubber. It’s already pretty flimsy. The poly will make it worse. The vert is a cruiser :) Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1395_1):
My opinion: go with Oem rubber. Everywhere. The difference between 27 year old, worn out rubber and brand new will be amazing. Unless you are taking it to the track on the regular, you'll be happy with Oem. I did every piece of suspension and mounting with brand new rubber on my 88 about 5 years ago and it's been 5 years and about 80k miles of solid, quiet running with zero maintenance.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1395_2):
For the most part I agree that rubber is the way to go for a car like yours with an exception or two. I think for the rear shock mounts you are are better off with some poly HD type as the stock rubber type has blown out prematurely in my experience. Also I used 96-99 M3 rubber front control arm bushings over the standard E30 because they are supposed to be a bit more sturdy. You could also use the E30 M3 ones (that are solid rubber) if you want more caster. I think the solid rubber e12 type motor mounts fit and are stronger than the E30 ones if I recall correctly. For brands of rubber bushings I generally like Lemforder, Meyle HD, and sometimes Febi. I haven't yet tried poly "street" hardness rear subframe bushings but that could be an upgrade that benefits your car depending on how you drive your car. In my opinion for a street car that is driven hard on occasion the strategic use of poly in some locations is money well spent.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1395_3):
Originally posted by Bearmw For the most part I agree that rubber is the way to go for a car like yours with an exception or two. I think for the rear shock mounts you are are better off with some poly HD type as the stock rubber type has blown out prematurely in my experience. Good point. It’s been so long I forgot that I used Rogue Engineering rear shock mounts on mine. Haven’t had to think about them!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1395_4):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem My opinion: go with Oem rubber. Everywhere. The difference between 27 year old, worn out rubber and brand new will be amazing. Unless you are taking it to the track on the regular, you'll be happy with Oem. I did every piece of suspension and mounting with brand new rubber on my 88 about 5 years ago and it's been 5 years and about 80k miles of solid, quiet running with zero maintenance. This, definitely. The original rubber bushings lasted 27 years and are still holding the car together, even though they are shot. When I redid my suspension I went stock lemforder everywhere and the difference was amazing. It's a convertible, so unless you are tracking I don't see why you need poly. Like everyone else said, the only poly I have is on the Ground control rear shock mounts.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1395_5):
Just got done redoing all the front end rubber and the difference really is night and day. The front actually rose by about 3/4 inch after swapping the spring pads and top hats. I plan on doing the rear spring pads and top hats on the next rainy day.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1395_6):
Yep, it's amazing how much old spring perches sag! Tons of good advice in here, I'd echo the "OEM Rubber is best" mantra for the type of driving you want. E21 transmission mounts are a nice OEM rubber upgrade from the e30 pieces, and E30 M3 front CABs are too.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1395_7):
My setup: CAB's : OEM M3 HD Rubber Front strut mounts: OEM Rubber RTabs, Subframe: Revshift 80A poly bushings w/ 12mm risers I 100% recommend the poly bushings. They are great. Everything feels tight. Nothing is uncomfortable and no extra noise or vibration in my opinion. I run IE3's and the ride is great and the handling is fantastic for a vert. I also run the garagistic x-brace. I love my setup. Everyone compliments the ride and i have not gotten one uncomfortable or noise complaint. TLDR: OEM HD Rubber up front, Poly 80A rear bushings.