QUESTION ID: 2527

QUESTION:
Kinda like strapping a wing on the back of a fwd car.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2527_0):
Originally posted by naplesE30 Kinda like strapping a wing on the back of a fwd car. No, it's not. A rear spoiler on a FWD can be beneficial, unlike fake hood scoops on a mid-engined car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2527_10):
Originally posted by jalopi Speaking of stupid MR2 shit... I know this is for 100% functionality (and actually works surprisingly well at reducing understeer, even at low speeds) but goddamn is it the ugliest shit ever. Interestingly enough, I'd be the car in OPs picture generates lift from that nonsense Poor car. This car at its best is when it is bone STOCK. My favorite of all the Mr2's.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2527_11):
Yeah but have you ever driven one when it's cold outside or even remotely damp? They understeer like pigs. The front wangs help out like you wouldn't believe. Also, I'll admit they are pretty goddamn awesome. It's too bad they're so overpriced... I would've had one a long time ago if they weren't.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2527_2):
Originally posted by newman8r My Brother just bought an mr2! We were at autozone the other day laughing about how someone would probably put a fake hood scoop on the front! :rofl: What year? Post up a pic.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2527_6):
Originally posted by McGyver wtf was that?!? Man I have no clue. I was on the freeway and Jake was following me with his new truck.. I sped up to see it but was losing jake so I had to slow down as he didnt know where he was going. Im pretty sure it was wood though. You can get those clean lines with anything else

ANSWER 6 (id: 2527_7):
Originally posted by blunttech Im pretty sure it was wood though. I trust Blunt's opinion on wood over anyone elses. He has more experience than most.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2527_8):
Speaking of stupid MR2 shit... I know this is for 100% functionality (and actually works surprisingly well at reducing understeer, even at low speeds) but goddamn is it the ugliest shit ever. Interestingly enough, I'd be the car in OPs picture generates lift from that nonsense

ANSWER 8 (id: 2527_9):
Still digging Originally posted by McGyver wtf was that?!? Lionleaders.com may be for sale - PerfectDomain.com http://lionleaders.com/team-fox.html Checkout the full domain details of Lionleaders.com. Click Buy Now to instantly start the transaction or Make an offer to the seller!