QUESTION ID: 3479

QUESTION:
Hey! Wanted to put a general feeler out to see who is where in Europe. A buddy and I will be taking off on a 12-14 day road tour of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and possibly Italy starting June 18th starting in Warsaw, Poland. I know that there are a few of you who are on deployment in Germany, some regular folks that are just working in Europe like I am and locals in all of these countries that are on this forum. Would be really nice to meet up with other e30 owners along the way, chat e30s and meet others that have the same e30 love. First order of business for this trip is a b line to the Nurburgring. Any suggestion of places to stay? I have a couple recommendations from a buddy back in California, but always good to have a backup if that falls through. At the moment, I'm not sure if my car will be allow on the track due to some visible rust. Maybe one of you guys who have spent some time at the track can tell me? The rules for roadworthy vehicles in Poland are a bit different than in Germany. Finding a used OEM driver's side e30 fender is proving to be difficult. Can't justify purchasing a new OEM fender for this trip, but also don't want to be banned from driving the ring. Time is ticking... Super amp'd on this trip and one that I've been wanting to do since I moved to Europe 8 years ago. Bummed I missed the Bavaria Tour 2016 for the '02s, but will make up for it with this once in a lifetime trip in my touring. My next gig/tour is in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. This trip needs to be epic. Who's down to show some European e30 hospitality? ;) - Evan

ANSWER 1 (id: 3479_0):
Sounds like a fun trip you have planned! As always in racing, if there is something you need to cover up you should just slap some gaffer tape on it and call it a day.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3479_1):
Not sure if you have enough time, but Schmiedmann has front fenders for $68 US. Money well spent if it gets you on the Nurburgring. Have a great time!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3479_2):
Thanks for the replies. I'll have to check and see where as Schiedmann is in Germany. Would need to have it installed too. Good lead! Not sure gaffer tape will suffice but won't hurt to have some. Hope it all holds together!