QUESTION ID: 1486

QUESTION:
*3.31.21 edit* Just sold my last set. Unless there are 4 + confirmed people interested in getting flaps made, I'll just lose money at this point making any more. This is incredibly long time coming, and although I knew this was the case going into this, there is a very good reason why no one has made reproductions yet. Making these mudflaps is truly a labor of love. Expensive, labor intensive, and only medium results. I only have 4 sets for sale for now. In my first go at it, I made 6 sets successfully (quite a few failures), but I promised bluebmw 2 sets for the originals he let me borrow (for a long time). I have attached photos of the four sets because they're all a little different. They are kind of works of "art" because they are so inconsistent. The main differences are that A and B are internally reinforced by 1cmx1cm wire netting. This is because the material I use gets a little floppy in the sun and the netting was what I could think of to reinforce the mudflaps. The downside is they are significantly less pretty (although I tried to make the metal show up only in the areas that aren't visible.) Sets C and D are not reinforced. There isn't random pieces of metal sticking out of them and they're easier to make. I'm calling this a Beta test because I would like whoever buys a set to give an honest review on this thread. If the reviews come back that you guys were all pretty unhappy with them, I'll just stop making them. I'll also base the decision of whether to make them reinforced or not base on your feedback. I'm going to be truthful here: they are not the prettiest things in the world, and they aren't cheap. Also, I am not including any hardware for the flaps, so you have to figure out your own way of attaching them to your car. I did create 3d files of the hardware to my best ability, see enclosed pdfs. Leave a message on this thread saying which one you want. This is a first come first serve dealio. Sets A and B are $140, C is $115 and D is $95. One side of D is slightly underfilled and has more bubbles than the others in the most visible part of the flap, the "BMW" area. Set A: https://imgur.com/a/UZXiNR6 - Gone Set B: https://imgur.com/a/NkTpC3k - Gone Set C: https://imgur.com/a/1OTEppy - Gone Set D: https://imgur.com/a/YKqWKo0 - Gone Attached Files Right Side.pdf (21.9 KB, 226 views) Left Side.pdf (22.1 KB, 220 views)

ANSWER 1 (id: 1486_0):
Here are the .step and .stl files of the brackets if anyone needs them. Just change their extension and it should work. Attached Files Right Side (actually an STL).pdf (84.3 KB, 278 views) Left Side (actually an STL).pdf (84.3 KB, 170 views) Left Side (actually a STEP).pdf (216.9 KB, 184 views) Right Side (actually a STEP).pdf (217.8 KB, 188 views)

ANSWER 2 (id: 1486_11):
Originally posted by Odyssey To be clear. I got the rears on eBay. The fronts were manufactured and shipped to me with bracket specs by E30andy. So good on E30andy. Haha not me who manufactured and shipped these as much as I would like to take credit! Just want some pics when you get a chance.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1486_2):
they're for the 325ix. we only had one version of the 325ix in north america, so that's what they fit. ;) I think they don't look bad at all - regarding the mesh, I think it's a good idea. If you trimmed it down a little smaller so it didn't stick out the sides, it might be easier to fit. But I'm sure you're cutting that by hand which isn't easy.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1486_3):
Wow! Coming from a guy who has actually had new original’s... good werk! G O O D. W O R K ! So many people have threatened to do this. Add a pic of the hardware and instructions to your thread.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1486_4):
Originally posted by restart Wow! Coming from a guy who has actually had new original’s... good werk! G O O D. W O R K ! So many people have threatened to do this. Add a pic of the hardware and instructions to your thread. Don't have any hardware instructions:(. I was told to just make them and people would figure it out. That's why I made the 3D files. I haven't spent much time on the hardware, but I think it's definitely manageable to get them attached without too much effort.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1486_5):
Hey ghatid, Pretty sure I still have some English instructions and a complete pack of NOS galvanized mounting hardware(brackets, screws, washers, tape, etc.) SOMEWHERE down a rabbit hole the parts palace. it’s not critical for the hardcore ixer but might make a nice package for other 3er people. pun intended. I will TRY and keep an eye out for them. Don’t want to muddy your thread up to much to much BUT here is a pic of a free pages I have in front of me.... PS/edit, the other pics may already be in the other thread? TTYL

ANSWER 7 (id: 1486_6):
ghatid, I'm all in for sets A, B, or C. Are any of those left? We can complete the transaction with all possible haste. At your convenience. Best, Jason

ANSWER 8 (id: 1486_8):
Originally posted by Odyssey Bought a set. Clean fit. Just need to get the metal cut to make brackets. My mechanic is stepping up. Pics when they are mounted please!

ANSWER 9 (id: 1486_9):
Fronts went on today. Mech reports it went smoothly. Ironically the rears are having a problem because the clips that got shipped to me with them weren't correct. So they're having to improvise. I pick her up tomorrow, but may not have pics until later in the week because it's getting dark so early now.