QUESTION ID: 334

QUESTION:
I just picked up my first BMW...'91 318is... I need to replace the shocks and rear bearings it seems. After reading thru numerous posts and getting quite confused between the 325 and 318 guys, I figure i'll just make my own post and hopefully contribute for future searchers. Again I'm new to the BMW parts world. How difficult is it to remove/replace the rear wheel bearings. Any DIYs / what tools are required or should I just take it to a shop. In that case, can anyone recommend a shop in Northern NJ. Being that I need new shocks, I was going to do a sportier suspension anyway. I'm leaning towards Bilstein Sports and H&R Sport Springs, for a daily driver-comfortable ride. Where is the cheapest/reliable place to get them? If you feel that I left out other needed suspension items along with what I mentioned, please suggest, I'm welcoming any helpful input you guys can give me.

ANSWER 1 (id: 334_0):
Hit up cmuzyy on bimmerforums.com. He has the Bilstein Sports for a good price, like $330 or something like that, back in January. He might be still running that deal. Check this thread: bilsteins anyone? http://forums.bimmerforums.com/forum/showthread.php?t=466763 Bimmerforums is the preferred online BMW Forum and community for BMW owners. At Bimmerforums, you will find technical how-to information maintenance specifics audio advice wheel and tire combinations and model specific details not found anywhere else. Our professionals are here to help make sure you find the answers you need to your questions and our community is here to help other brainstorm ideas for the future. Rear wheel bearings are a bear. If you have high mileage and the car is from the Northeast, rust will likely make removal more difficult. Check out this DIY. Automotive Expertise http://www.teamdfl.com/bmw/e30/rear_wheel_bearings/index.html You can also check www.bimmerdiy.com for a list of different DIY jobs you can do to your car. Good luck! Fred

ANSWER 2 (id: 334_1):
Rears are a bitch and a half so Id just bite the bullet and bring it to a shop. Luckily for you with the right tools it isnt that long of a job so it doesnt cost to much and it saves you the hastle. Ask Scott, aka Bimmerfanatick about how much fun a rear wheel bearing is and he'll relate. In the world of shocks what are you planning to do to the car? If you arent planning on lowering the car at all pick up a set of Boge Turbos or another Bilstein tourings for around 220.