QUESTION ID: 2966

QUESTION:
I'd just like to get the word out across the BMW community - do not buy anything from: Andrew Brown Bud Brown (many forums) Autotechnologiesct (active eBay account) Jack Benson (alias) He's been scamming people from almost every car forum - BMW community, Nissan, and Honda. He's all over the boards and scamming people from every community - including me and a few people from E30tech I've recently found out. He's been doing it for years now. Here's a thread on him from 2 years ago: http://forums.nicoclub.com/post5668399.html#p5668399 Spread the word across all the other forums you're on. Feel free to copy/paste this. The above thread has the most in depth information about who he is and the scams he pulls - with lots of ownage but apparently no justice.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2966_0):
I made two orders from him last year. The first was for a nuke cam pulley and something else. It came a little slower than I would have liked but it came as described, so I made a second order for a log intake manifold. He started being a dick after a couple of weeks saying that he will send it but that he has some crazy stuff going on in his life and that if he told me I would understand but refused to tell me. I made sure to file a claim with paypal before time was up. I got tracking info the next day and the package a couple days later. I'm positive that had I filed the claim within the time limit I would have never received my part. Sorry about those who got burned. I almost did.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2966_11):
I just came across this post after a couple months of sleuthing about a “Andrew (Andy) Brown” that ripped me off for money I sent him in PayPal and he never sent me the part... sounds like a very similar story to what I’ve read about who I believe to be the same guy... his website is schnellmotorworks.com... he never answers his phone number listed. If you search the Bmw2002faq.com website for his name you’ll see a post a couple months ago where he ripped me and several others off for money... if anyone has any information to share please PM me thanks

ANSWER 3 (id: 2966_12):
Originally posted by Originale30 I just came across this post after a couple months of sleuthing about a “Andrew (Andy) Brown” that ripped me off for money I sent him in PayPal and he never sent me the part... sounds like a very similar story to what I’ve read about who I believe to be the same guy... his website is schnellmotorworks.com... he never answers his phone number listed. If you search the Bmw2002faq.com website for his name you’ll see a post a couple months ago where he ripped me and several others off for money... if anyone has any information to share please PM me thanks This dude has been at it forever. Likely some junkie that used to be a normal e30 guy and this knows how to get people going. Anyhow, good to see another NM e30 guy here.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2966_2):
Originally posted by Dagamus(NM) I made two orders from him last year. The first was for a nuke cam pulley and something else. It came a little slower than I would have liked but it came as described, so I made a second order for a log intake manifold. He started being a dick after a couple of weeks saying that he will send it but that he has some crazy stuff going on in his life and that if he told me I would understand but refused to tell me. I made sure to file a claim with paypal before time was up. I got tracking info the next day and the package a couple days later. I'm positive that had I filed the claim within the time limit I would have never received my part. Sorry about those who got burned. I almost did. I read that he used that exact same line on the nissan forms also. He told me his friend died yesterday. Rough life I guess Did you guys get to the article where he attempted to evade the police for 20 minutes in his daddys benz when he was 18? He didn't.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2966_3):
Man, what a piece of work. I met him briefly a few years ago at a local BMW meet and didn't think much of it. If you get his contact info and want me to make a trip on behalf, I don't mind doing so. Shoot me a PM if you want.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2966_4):
Originally posted by george graves Lol @ Jack Benson. That's a awful fake name. And "Bud" Brown is better? LOL As long as there are internet forums that have classified / for sale sections there will always be "bottom feeders" like this. The recessionary times causes this to increase. So let your gut be your guide and take steps to protect both parties in the transaction.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2966_5):
I would strongly encourage people to get the word out. In my research of him I've come across many reply posts stating that they too had been scammed by Andrew Brown. If you have or know some one who has please post your story on the NICO site. We're trying to combine all the efforts possible at this point as it appears he owes a lot of people money and hasn't learned his lesson yet.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2966_6):
Originally posted by BenM If you get his contact info and want me to make a trip on behalf, I don't mind doing so. Shoot me a PM if you want. Andrew Brown 33 Old Field Hill Rd. Unit #3 Southbury, CT 06488 United States ;)

ANSWER 9 (id: 2966_8):
It is a fake. 33 OLD FIELD HILL RD Southbury CT 06488 Weichert.com - Sold or expired (29619022) http://www.weichert.com/29619022/ 33 OLD FIELD HILL RD Southbury CT 06488 Weichert.com