QUESTION ID: 156

QUESTION:
I'm planning on installing airbag bumpers on my 1988 coupe. I have watched/read a number of videos/articles on this issue, but they tend to address adding airbag bumpers onto an early model chassis. My car build date was just a month ahead of the airbag installs, and my understanding is the front and rear valances are identical to the later (say 1989) airbag models, meaning no valance modifications would be required. I'd ideally like to connect with a 1988 owner that performed this swap to identify exactly what needs obtained, in addition to the airbag bumpers. For example, are the bumper shocks the same as airbag cars (bumper bolts seem to imply they are), are the parking lights on bumpers (externally, appear to be the same size as airbag models) the same?, what about the plastic pieces on the fenders that the bumpers slide onto? Any other parts I need to know about? I see "late model bumpers" for sale regularly, but they typically don't have the plastic side pieces, parking lights etc. Just want to have everything in front of me before making the swap! Thanks in advance if you are able to help out!

ANSWER 1 (id: 156_0):
if you've got the 88 it's a direct swap. you need the correct shocks and sliders. you'll need the front turn signals and there are a couple plastic bumper only brackets for the sides. you can see the differences and check the parts in realoem.

ANSWER 2 (id: 156_1):
I did look at realOEM mainly to compare the parts between my car and an airbag car. Interesting, realOEM displays a visual parts breakout for both types of bumpers, but beneath the early bumpers (the ones on my car now) realOEM indicates in red "No Parts Matching Your Car" and does not list any part numbers for the early bumpers (the later airbag diagram does). Therefore, I wasn't able to see if, for example, the bumper shock part numbers were identical between the two. Thanks again for your post, I'm concluding I should find an airbag car with the bumpers on and remove all the parts myself. Again, the bumpers I see for sale on FB marketplace (etc) typically don't include the side plastic pieces, turn signals, parking lights, etc.

ANSWER 3 (id: 156_3):
Originally posted by bhontz I did look at realOEM mainly to compare the parts between my car and an airbag car. Interesting, realOEM displays a visual parts breakout for both types of bumpers, but beneath the early bumpers (the ones on my car now) realOEM indicates in red "No Parts Matching Your Car" and does not list any part numbers for the early bumpers (the later airbag diagram does). Therefore, I wasn't able to see if, for example, the bumper shock part numbers were identical between the two. Thanks again for your post, I'm concluding I should find an airbag car with the bumpers on and remove all the parts myself. Again, the bumpers I see for sale on FB marketplace (etc) typically don't include the side plastic pieces, turn signals, parking lights, etc. choose cars from 2 different yrs and you can see both set up parts listed. edit : also you don't need an air bag car. lots of small bumper cars don't have the bags. the bags didn't show up until late 90 and production stopped in 91. the small bumpers began in late 88.

ANSWER 4 (id: 156_4):
I've done this swap, IIRC, you need bumpers, shocks, and plastic sliders. The bumpers need to be complete two pieces outer cover and inner structure. Side marker lights were the only thing that were transferable, even the front rectangular lig hts look similar but aren't. I over thought it too, with the cost of parts, I can't blame you. I think I got the side front plastics sliders from bimmerworld, I think they we're like 20$. (2023 price!)