QUESTION ID: 1631

QUESTION:
Most likely this has been mentioned before, but I think all the old timers and the new people should come back to R3V and forget about FB and other on-line so called forums:). I know, everyone thinks they need to be on facebook and this is an old forum....but you can not get better help and this forum has tons of great information....I for one am tired of dealing with FB and trying to get someone to respond:). Maybe if we all come back this week, we can start a new trend. I can't believe there was no information about the e30 picnic on this forum...where is everyone! So, I got that off my chest; and yes the e30 picnic was wonderful this year and the weather was the best I have seen in the last few years. Maybe we should all plan on being there this next year and really show off the e30.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1631_0):
Looked like the picnic had a good turnout from the photos I saw. Bad timing for me but am hopeful that my car will be drivable for next year. Still some frequent build thread updates from 15-20 users I'd say. But yea, more is always nice.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1631_10):
Originally posted by 2002jm Does anyone know why is takes so long to post a comment? Maybe its my computer; but the computer is new.....so maybe something else is going on...also, do we need to donate to this forum so someone has money to update items? jm I think it's server/vB related. The longer it's up, the longer it takes. As far as I remember, this forum version was a stopgap measure but there's either limited support, limited upgrade path, or both?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1631_11):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i I get tired of arguing with noobs on FB about what their clapped out old parts are really worth and why their rusty 318i auto with bad paint isn't worth $60k! It's the opposite of the nit picking over cars that commenters do over on BaT. Just hit them with the laugh emoji react when stuff is too expensive. I see that a lot on the RX7 groups.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1631_12):
Originally posted by 2002jm Well, more people is what we need. I am going to start working on my 85 hartge h23 tribute project here soon; so that will be some new content:) Does anyone know why is takes so long to post a comment? Maybe its my computer; but the computer is new.....so maybe something else is going on...also, do we need to donate to this forum so someone has money to update items? jm The lag can be hit or miss. Some days my posts will go through immediately. Other days it takes a few minutes. I always just leave that tab alone while its posting and go check out another tab I have open.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1631_4):
Facebook groups suck and you should make fun of people who use them instead of forums. The internet was better when people's experience of it wasn't 4 garbage algorithm based websites and some spyware (apps).

ANSWER 6 (id: 1631_5):
I agree 100%. When I got my first E30 in 2011ish this was the place to go, new stuff to read everyday. Now I check in almost everyday but hardly any new stuff. I do appreciate the few who are still active and helped a ton with my swap!!

ANSWER 7 (id: 1631_7):
Well, more people is what we need. I am going to start working on my 85 hartge h23 tribute project here soon; so that will be some new content:) Does anyone know why is takes so long to post a comment? Maybe its my computer; but the computer is new.....so maybe something else is going on...also, do we need to donate to this forum so someone has money to update items? jm

ANSWER 8 (id: 1631_9):
I get tired of arguing with noobs on FB about what their clapped out old parts are really worth and why their rusty 318i auto with bad paint isn't worth $60k! It's the opposite of the nit picking over cars that commenters do over on BaT.