QUESTION ID: 2982

QUESTION:
Anyone interested in seeing my 1987 325e? It's been my baby since 2005, but I have to get rid of it now. BUT THE SAD PART IS THE ENGINE CAUGHT FIRE!!!! My wife says it's time to sell it AS IS. Man, I wish I could afford to rebuild it. So sad!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2982_0):
Shit happens. I had an ix burn down 2 weeks after I took it off full coverage because some asshat backed into me and the insurance company didn't go after him. Fuel lines cracked, pissed fuel all over, and it caught fire really nicely. It was sad to see it go, but you move on to the next project and learn to replace those fuel lines early.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2982_10):
I disagree, but it's important to use fuel injection hose and not carburetor hose. The stuff for carburetor's is not made to handle high pressure and will fail pretty quickly.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2982_11):
I got about 30 pics of the car today. If I had a parts car, Id probably do something with this car. Its Royal Blau, and looked to be fairly well maintained... except for the fuel lines. Sad situation, you can tell Rudy really loved the car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2982_2):
Seeing stuff like that makes me glad I replaced my fuel hoses from tank to fuel rail. I had a fuel hose rupture on my old Volvo, luckily it was in the back near the second fuel pump so it just made a long trail if fuel as I drove and was well away from anything very hot or prone to making sparks like the starter, distributor, etc.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2982_4):
THANK YOU all for your kind words.. Thanks guys for all your words. Noted on changing the fuel lines. I look at it everyday when I leave for work. Used to keep it in the garage, now it's in the driveway. ANY SUGGESTIONS ON HOW TO GET RID OF IT? The inside is perfect! The seats are all original cloth BLUE. The inside door panels are in perfect condition. I'm considering CARS FOR KIDS, but I don't want to toss it. ANY SUGGESTIONS would be appreciated. Thank you! I ASKED FOR A ridiculous amount, I know, but I really don't want to let it go. I bought it for $300 and dropped $10,000 to rebuild.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2982_5):
So why can't you rebuild? And why does your wife get the final say in what happens to your car? It's a nice looking car, and I don't see fixing that as an impossible feat. Looks like it came from the pass side of the bay. I would start disassembly on the driver's side, clean and inspect the various parts as you go to see what needs to be replaced and what can be reused, working your way over to where the fire started.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2982_7):
I had one go on me in the front, thank god I noticed it. We were working on the car and I started it to move it and got out for something and saw fuel spilling out from under the car. It was spitting it! Sorry for your loss, whats next??

ANSWER 8 (id: 2982_8):
What next... Yeah. In all fairness, I used some of our savings to work on the BMW. Again, about $10,000. I'm ready to just get one that doesn't require my time to rebuild. The issue is, I want to sell it to another person that appreciates how much of a wonderful automobile this machine is. Powerful, safe, etc. Thank you for all your comments. If you know anyone that want to buy as is and save it when they need parts, I'm here. In the meantime, I'll keep looking for that person. Cheers! Rudy