QUESTION ID: 2855

QUESTION:
Hi Everyone, My wife and I returned from a friends wedding tonight (gone June 6-16th) to find our 2002 was no where to be found. Was taken from a parking lot at our apartment complex in Boulder, CO. It's not at the tow yards, and the police have no records of it. We love the old thing. We have travelled across the US in it. Fixed it on the side of the road in the middle of no where. Made friends over repairs. It's our adventure mobile. Please keep an eye out for it. VIN: 2508125 Lots of images here (scroll down): https://www.instagram.com/gooddaychaps/

ANSWER 1 (id: 2855_12):
So awesome to hear! I kept checking this thread when I saw new posts hoping for good news and I'm happy to hear you got it back! You're one of the lucky ones to get it back, thats for sure.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2855_3):
Sorry for the loss. I've had similar experiences. Once police found the video, it turned out it was a flat bed tow truck with a boom on the back, just randomly stealing cars. They got 10 in my old industrial park in one night, two at a time (one on the boom, one on the flat bed).

ANSWER 3 (id: 2855_6):
Originally posted by E30 Fitment Keep an eye on craigslist in both the car and auto part section to see if they sell anything. Wish you the best of luck If only it were easy to spot 2002 parts, but that dang model name makes it tricky. Sorry for you hopefully temporary loss OP.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2855_7):
Tonight the thieves were arrested and the car returned. The culprits go by "Waldo" and "Sunshine". Classic Boulder.waffles The front bumper is mangled, but at least it's back. Thanks for the help everyone. Now to look into theft-proofing the car...

ANSWER 5 (id: 2855_8):
That is great news. I saw your post on the o2 far also. I use a cutoff switch on my negative battery terminal that has a key on it. I use it mostly to kill the battery since the car is a garage queen but if I do weekend trips to Vintage shows I use it when I park it left unattended. dlm ny country