QUESTION ID: 2932

QUESTION:
So I have a wtb ad here for a 2002 roof. Get a pm from some dude who has never posted, saying he has a roof. Wants me to go directly to his email and communication goes from there. I ask about shipping as it's a bulky item, he says no problem will use FedEx or whatever. Asks for my shipping address. I give it to him. He gives me a price shipped. I ask for a pic, he says "I have what you want and will ship it when you are ready". I said no pic, no purchase. He said he will get back to me with pics. Never did. Just be careful out there, scammers are coming up with new ways

ANSWER 1 (id: 2932_0):
This is kind of an old story unfortunately. Good for you for catching it before you kissed any money goodbye.ive gotten tons of these over the years. You should have asked how much shipped from Nigeria

ANSWER 2 (id: 2932_11):
Your item lol. Ask them what item is that your are referring to... They really insult our intelligence... Scammers are trying to cheat their way through life. Here's a tip to them. There are no shortcuts. Just hard work if you want anything nice.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2932_12):
Originally posted by clarkson Hey mate, thanks again for the camtray, the s14 is running awesome. So this roof lol, yeah how the f@#$& would we get it from Cali to Vancouver BC lol. Hot shot it..... Will be cheaper than Fedex/UPS I would bet but still will not be R3V cheap.... The Online Shipping Marketplace for Furniture, Freight & More | uShip https://www.uship.com/ Ship furniture, vehicles, freight, and more by connecting with carriers who compete for your shipment. Compare quotes and get started today.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2932_13):
Got this message today in response to my WTB ad. I don't think I'll be wasting my time on a reply. My name is Mike. I am E-mailing you about your wanted Ad. Please contact me on pj8694542@gmail.com . I am in Florida and shipping is no problem.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2932_2):
+1 always use paypal Insurance. Just like life insurance is there when you need it. lol. Had been spamed only once on here. they said they had exactly what I had. But they were google photos and actually someone on here with rep before he scammed maybe 20-30 people ... End of story got my money back because i Used papal and paied the fee. Thank the lord since it was 350 dollars...

ANSWER 6 (id: 2932_4):
Originally posted by JasonC A username and email of the guy would be nice so he can be banned and blocked. "Hi, This is Mike . I am Emailing about your wanted Ad . Please email me on mikeowen1122@gmail.com. Thanks" Username mikeowen

ANSWER 7 (id: 2932_8):
Originally posted by 2mAn the best was the guy with the screename "trustedseller59" GTFO Lol. If his name is trusted seller, then I’m sure he is fine.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2932_9):
Originally posted by phreshkid hmm. I'm in SoCal with a nice 02 roof I could give you for $100, if you can figure out how to ship it. Non-sunroof, came from a tii, etc. Hey mate, thanks again for the camtray, the s14 is running awesome. So this roof lol, yeah how the f@#$& would we get it from Cali to Vancouver BC lol.