QUESTION ID: 696

QUESTION:
I know there are a few articles out on the web about this procedure, but I figured it was time for a dedicated r3v thread on a timing belt DIY. This article is meant to provide a means for people with limited mechanical experience to save a few hundred dollars on a fairly easy repair. Here goes: It is always good to keep organized along the way, have bags, tape, and pens handy if you want an easier time putting things back together. Materials list: ·8,10,13,22mm wrenches ·32mm slim bicycle wrench ·10,13,17mm deep well sockets ·13,19mm shallow well sockets ·Ratchets and Torque Wrench ·3 in. extension ·Phillips and Flat Head screwdrivers ·3mm Allen Wrench ·New coolant (optional, but recommended) ·Timing belt ·Water pump ·Tensioner Note that these are all the tools we used. You may be able to use less, or may have to use more, but this is a good starting list for what we know will work. Step 1: Remove hood (optional but highly recommended)- Mark position of hood so reinstalling will be easier. There are 6x 10mm bolts, three on either mounting hinges. Also there is 1x 13mm bolt and 1 clip holding the hood strut to the body. Step 2: Remove washer fluid line- you may need to empty or remove the washer reservoir. (1 flat head plastic screw) Step 3: Remove plastic skidplate (unless you already have an aftermarket metal one, the procedure should be similar to the following)- Remove 2x 8mm and 1x 10mm fasteners per side. I couldn't get a good shot of this with my camera, but it should be pretty clear what needs to be unbolted. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them. Step 4: Drain coolant from radiator- either Phillips head or 13mm plastic bolt. Be sure to relieve pressure by unscrewing the coolant reservoir cap. Step 5: Drain coolant from block- 1x 19mm bolt. This will be messy. We haven’t figured out how to direct flow into a collection pan. (If you have any tricks, please, let us know!) Step 6: Remove upper radiator cover- 2x 10mm bolts. Step 7: Remove upper, lower, and overflow hoses from radiator (all hose clamps should be 6mm if stock). There are also 2 transmission lines if the car is an automatic that must be removed. Step 8: Unplug radiator sensor and slide radiator out with fan shroud attached. (If the fan shroud cannot slide out, unscrew the radiator fan first and pull out as an entire assembly). Step 9: Remove radiator fan- Use slim 32mm bicycle wrench for much easier access. THIS IS A REVERSE THREAD Step 10: Remove thermostat to lower radiator hose. 2x 10mm bolts. Step 11: Remove distributor cap cover and distributor cap- 3x 8mm bolts. Step 12: Remove rotor- 3x 3mm allen wrench. Step 13: Remove thermostat to water pump hose. Step 14: Remove power steering belt. oLoosen all 3 bolts (2x 13mm, 1x 19mm) oUse bracket to move pump inward, loosening the belt. oRemove and label belt Step 15: Remove AC compressor belt oLoosen 13mm bolt on top, and the 13mm bolt on the bottom backside of the compressor oUse the 19mm bolt to move the compressor inward along the toothed bracket oRemove and label belt Step 16: Remove Alternator belt oLoosen 13mm bolt on bottom. oUse 19mm bolt to move alternator along toothed bracket. oLoosen, remove, and label belt. Step 17: Remove fan pulley- Use flathead screwdriver to hold pulley in place while loosening the 4 10mm bolts (rotating it each time). Step 18: Remove "crankshaft" bolts- Use 22mm wrench to hold crankshaft in place while you loosen the six 13mm bolts. Step 19: Remove Crankshaft Pulley and Harmonic Balancer/Vibration Dampener Step 20: Rotate alternator bracket out of the way by loosening the 13mm bolt holding it in place. Step 21: Remove black plastic timing belt cover clamp (see picture, its a simple clip on black plastic piece. You may need to move a few wires out of the way) Step 22: Remove upper timing belt cover- 1x 10mm 1x 13mm bolts. (see the dirty bolts on the left and right? Those are them.) Step 23: Remove lower timing belt cover- 1x 10mm bolt. The bolt is at the bottom of the cover, a little hard to see. Step 24: Remove timing belt by loosening the tensioner, depressing it with a screwdriver, and taking the belt off. Step 25: Remove timing belt tensioner- 17mm deep well first, followed by 13mm bolt retaining the spring. (see picture above for tensioner bolts.) Step 26: Remove water pump- 3x 13mm bolts Step 26.5: CLEAN. I highly recommend cleaning all of the exposed components that you can before moving on to reinstalling. It may seem trivial at first, but in the end, you will wish you would have cleaned more. Step 27: Install new water pump/gasket. Torque to 80 in.-lb. Step 28: Install new tensioner. Leave bolts loose. Step 29: Install new timing belt- slide over tensioner LAST while compressing it. (picture from step 24 should explain this well). MAKE SURE to check that the camshaft and crankshaft are aligned properly. I have never had any trouble with this, but it is definitely a precaution to take before reinstalling. Step 30: Installation should be reverse of removal.

ANSWER 1 (id: 696_10):
Originally posted by TrentW Use the blue Hylomar sealant. Pricier, but way mo' betta. Also, when you bleed the coolant, jack up the car from front left side framerail so the overflow tank is at the highest point. It will bleed faster and easier. Very nice DIY with great photos Greg. Great Advice. I actually just did a head gasket on my vert yesterday (check out my time lapse in the OT section of this forum!) and was having trouble taking the bleeder screw out to bleed the coolant, I'll try this when I get home. Thanks for the tip

ANSWER 2 (id: 696_11):
I've been using your guide over this past weekend. One suggestion is undoing the bolts on the timing belt tensioner. I was having a hell of a time trying to release the tension so i could remove the timing belt. So undoing the bolts immediately releases the tension. Other than that it has been handy.

ANSWER 3 (id: 696_2):
we just did this, and everything is covered here. However, I'd also like to recommend using a gasket sealant to glue the gasket to either the pump or the block first. There was much wriggling and struggling to get it to seat properly while keeping the tensioner pin aligned, and thus we mangled the water pump gasket and now it leaks like a whore. The rest of it was not particularly bothersome, although make sure to reference proper bleeding procedures also before going on an extended drive more than 5 blocks from your house/workspace. also, nice kegerator.

ANSWER 4 (id: 696_4):
Originally posted by ZombiE30 we just did this, and everything is covered here. However, I'd also like to recommend using a gasket sealant to glue the gasket to either the pump or the block first. There was much wriggling and struggling to get it to seat properly while keeping the tensioner pin aligned, and thus we mangled the water pump gasket and now it leaks like a whore. The rest of it was not particularly bothersome, although make sure to reference proper bleeding procedures also before going on an extended drive more than 5 blocks from your house/workspace. also, nice kegerator. Thanks, yeah, we didn't have too much trouble getting it on there, but I could see how it could prove problematic. I had to cut some details out because I was over the 10,000 character limit, but I think it is a somewhat comprehensive guide, and should get people on the right track. I'm hearing good things so far, we'll see if it actually helps when someone sits down and does it. :D

ANSWER 5 (id: 696_5):
Thanks, going to do this at the before summer after I get the rest of the drivetrain in working order. It's going to be my first non routine maintenance job. New thermostat should be added to master list.

ANSWER 6 (id: 696_6):
nice write up, seems like you took out way more than i had too. then again i have an eta and it was every straight forward . Take off hood, drain coolant, take off the fan/clucth, remove all coolant hoses, remove dizzy , loosin alt belt take off water pump pully , then take the timing cover and etc etc... But like i said i did mine on a eta not an b25

ANSWER 7 (id: 696_8):
Another note, if your new water pump uses a basic paper gasket put soem RTV on there to avoid leaks Also some earlier cars will have small torx hoding on the ignition rotor, not allen nice write up!

ANSWER 8 (id: 696_9):
Originally posted by Naplm00 Another note, if your new water pump uses a basic paper gasket put soem RTV on there to avoid leaks Also some earlier cars will have small torx hoding on the ignition rotor, not allen nice write up! Use the blue Hylomar sealant. Pricier, but way mo' betta. Also, when you bleed the coolant, jack up the car from front left side framerail so the overflow tank is at the highest point. It will bleed faster and easier. Very nice DIY with great photos Greg.