QUESTION ID: 1958

QUESTION:
hello everyone this is my first post on here and looking for some help with the history of a e30 i recently bought. its a 1985 mk motorsport 2.7 believed to be 1 of 4 made to this spec and this being the only RHD version ever made. apparently mk built this car back in the 80’s/90’s to compete with alpina. where alpina offered you the full alpina package or nothing mk motorsport offered you the choice to have what suited you. eg performance/styling/handling apparently they sold many parts but to get the engine converted to the 2.7 you needed to take the car to germany which resulted in no one going. mk motorsport cars cam with 323i stroked to 2.7 head work custom rocker cover gearbox lsd bilstein coilovers adjustable anti roll bars manifold full stainless exhaust system wider wheels body kit steering wheel extra gauges oil temp, oil pressure, voltage ( these dials point to the right as they was designed for LHD) mk motorsport gear stick various mk motorsport badges i’m looking to restore the car and would love to find more info about it. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1958_0):
No idea, looks freakin cool though. Looks like it has all of the good bits one might want on an early e30! not sure you can bore a m20b23 to 2.7L, surely would be stroked?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1958_1):
Originally posted by e30davie No idea, looks freakin cool though. Looks like it has all of the good bits one might want on an early e30! not sure you can bore a m20b23 to 2.7L, surely would be stroked? sorry yes i meant stroked it seems to have some cool parts and quite a cool history would be nice to restore it back to there full spec.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1958_12):
Hi! I picked up something similar in October 2022 in Estonia! A barn find. Car was sitting since 2008 I believe. All torn appart for bodyworks and repaint but never put back together after the works. I got it as a rolling body with no engine/gearbox attached. All the parts in cardboard boxes in the barn floor :) Last few years the car was standing outside..on the grass..and it left it's mark under the car. Been actively trying to restore this since February 2023 and made quite some progress! Engine rebuilt, new ECU(VEMS) with new wiring harness. Engine mounted and first start made! @Richy_mk2.7​ How is your build going? I must say im really jelaous of the MK rims you managed to find..and front bumper, rear bumper you got from MK Motorsport. I've contacted them also but these are the 2 items they no longer have or have the ability to reproduce..FML Anyway this should give the idea of how I got it: ​​ Will add some "after" pictures later. Sh*t,this came longer than I expected.. I should make my own thread.. Sorry for intrusion @Richy_mk2.7 zz0.m7kjclbiykfzz

ANSWER 4 (id: 1958_2):
Sweet car. I'm guessing it's essentially an eta bottom end (maybe with higher compression pistons?) with the 731 323i head. Would be interested to see what head work it has. Looks like it's got a mtech 1 kit except somebody put a mtech 2 trunk spoiler on it, the wheels look like BBS RZ378. That strut brace is pretty cool and that valve cover is really cool too. Hope the body is still solid and you can restore this piece of e30 history.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1958_3):
Not sure I've ever seen a badge MK car. Occassionaly (more like rarely) the strut brace and valve cover have popped up for sale. Very cool purchase OP. I can't imagine those gauges are positioned in a great spot.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1958_7):
soooo after nearly a year of searching german websites (speaking through google translate!)and contacting the son of michael krankenberg.. I’ve finally managed to track down a genuine mk motorsport bodykit and all new mk motorsport suspension and exhaust system from mk-motorsport themself. possibly the last in existence lol -used- front bumper rear bumper side skirts spoiler -brand new- suspension and springs stainless manifold x-pipe mid pipe tailpipe after more research i also found out that the engine wasn’t stroked and was actually bored to a 2.7 and the cylinder head is modified to take larger valves along with a different cam shaft as well as a added oil cooler. quoted at 210bhp @ 5700rpm after speaking with michael krankenburgs son marc (the current owner of mk-motorsport) he said that it is actually the case that they only converted 1 RHD car into the mk2.7 with all the extras added some cool history i thought i’d share 👍🏻

ANSWER 7 (id: 1958_8):
2.5 years searching…. metric mk motorsport wheels found in germany now brought home and refurbed! i challenge anyone to find another set lol only an exhaust system left to get now and it can go for paint.. camt wait to start rebuilding this Attached Files