QUESTION ID: 3574

QUESTION:
I just wanted to say hello. I purchased my e30 3 years ago and have used this forum for ALOT of info. It has been very help full and saved my butt in many situations. My build has been a very drawn out build for me but is coming together. Like i mentioned above, I purchased my e30 3 years ago with plans to swap a toyota 1jz in. I have done so and plan to do a build thread for you guys to see all the hard work that has gone into the car but. Ill save that for another day lol. Im also looking forward to meeting some owners with the same interest in my area. If there are any!? With all that said, I just wanted to greet myself to your community.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3574_0):
Hello and welcome, sounds like a fun car! Not too many 1JZ E30s out there, I'm sure there are a number of people around here who would be interested to see how you went about the swap.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3574_3):
Originally posted by CarsonE30 I'm sure there's some people in your area, if only we knew where that was, I've never heard of mechanicsville. Welcome to r3v! I'm in the states on the east coast in Maryland.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3574_4):
Even people in Maryland haven't heard of Mechanicsville, it's way down there. There are a few guys down there, but I've lost touch with most of them over the years after my friend moved to Arizona. Roguetoaster kinda lives down that way in Port Republic. There's a weekly meet in College Park. http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=145091&page=123

ANSWER 4 (id: 3574_5):
Originally posted by Kershaw Even people in Maryland haven't heard of Mechanicsville, it's way down there. There are a few guys down there, but I've lost touch with most of them over the years after my friend moved to Arizona. Roguetoaster kinda lives down that way in Port Republic. There's a weekly meet in College Park. Welcome, I'm only 20-30 minutes from you. If you need assistance with the E30, or parts feel free to get in touch. E30 sightings are limited down this way, but if you stop by where I am you'll see every E30 body style except the M3.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3574_6):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Welcome, I'm only 20-30 minutes from you. If you need assistance with the E30, or parts feel free to get in touch. E30 sightings are limited down this way, but if you stop by where I am you'll see every E30 body style except the M3. good stuff man, im over around prince Fredrick often we'll have to get together some time. I've yet to meet up with another e30 lol