QUESTION ID: 2807

QUESTION:
Today was a pretty typical day. I woke up, watched youtube videos, made bacon and eggs, did some work in my underwear, worked on 2002 door cards, but then something happened. I get a call from one of our own e28 Alpina friends who was at the local auction house, going through the lots that would be for bidding later today. We get to facetiming because he said he found some s14 parts. Sure enough, he was right. He didnt want them, so he offered them to me (the right to bid). I put some clothes on (because I was going out in public) and drove over to the auction house a few minutes before the bidding started. Sure enough, I saw some s14 parts. I figured why not, let's bid on these parts. I thought they would be put up for auction one cart at a time so I can pick and choose what I wanted. I was wrong. I ended up buying a lot with enough parts to fill up a small U-Haul. An e30 m3 ECU and about 10 other BMW ECUs that I have yet to go through. hmmmm now we're getting somewhere. Best as I can figure, there are two impartial s14 heads, two blocks, and a third 2002tii block in in this lot. 6-speed trans with an adapter plate? Underneath that looks like a g245 trans. race car stuff? I think these front rotors belong to a euro e36 m3. I saw a few other euro m3 stuff among these parts. Everything in this photo, I bought it as one lot. What. The. Heck. Riddled among these carts are a bunch of porsche parts too. Carbon Fibre parts from a Carrera GT, 964 parts, 993 parts, etc. I am overwhelmed and wondering what I've done. HELP.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2807_5):
Originally posted by E30 Wagen how much did you pay for it all? why was it auctioned off? Originally posted by kronus i want some stuff Originally posted by XwalkerX My best guess is a small bmw/porsche shop went belly up and had to sell these parts. Among the car parts was a lot of shop equipment. Lathes, and many many tools/equipment pertaining to a small shop like this also went up for sale right after I bought what I bought. Kind of makes sense. I need to inventory what I have. I will likely sell 99% of this stuff. Anything pertaining to 2002 parts I'll probably keep. Will take lots of photos tomorrow and update. God, I hate shipping parts.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2807_8):
Originally posted by phreshkid MY LIFE IS SO COMPLICATED OMG But seriously, I don't want any of this shit. Come buy it. LOL. Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out of it alive no matter what. Flipping these parts is gonna be fun and profitable, perfect summer gig.