QUESTION ID: 780

QUESTION:
This is a video on how to swap your differential. We tried to be as clear and straightforward as possible, but obviously are not trained professionals. Use your best judgement when working on your car. Tools needed - 19mm Wrench - 17mm Wrench - 3/8 Ratchet - 19mm Socket - 8mm Allen Socket - small Pry bar / Thick Screwdriver Due to the difference in 318i/325i/325e manual/auto, as well as different model years, some of the bolt sizes may be different. We recommend using new bolts and always torque your parts to spec Here is the video:

ANSWER 1 (id: 780_11):
Originally posted by jeenyus I don't think it is available anymore. It was originally under Salt City Euro's channel, but then one half of that team split off for new ventures and I think took some of the videos with him. This may have been one of those. wrong. vids were lost because he didnt see a email and YouTube closed his account

ANSWER 2 (id: 780_12):
Originally posted by efficient wrong. vids were lost because he didnt see a email and YouTube closed his account Ah dang. What a bummer. Sent from my Pixel 2 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 780_3):
great video i like how you guys show yourselves getting on each bolt a lot of videos will just tell you and not show them cranking at least one of each different bolt. will be on the lookout for more vids

ANSWER 4 (id: 780_4):
Originally posted by Styleprojekt Due to the difference in 318i/325i/325e manual/auto, as well as different model years, some of the bolt sizes may be different. We recommend using new bolts and always torque your parts to spec FYI the only difference between all e30 model years is sometimes the half shaft bolts are e-torx instead of internal hex. Everything else is always the same across all model years.

ANSWER 5 (id: 780_6):
Originally posted by kronus FYI the only difference between all e30 model years is sometimes the half shaft bolts are e-torx instead of internal hex. Everything else is always the same across all model years. Thank you for the info! We just put that in there to protect ourselves so that if someone somewhere in Malaysia with an 84-316i-RHD-backwards-facing-Getrag-roofline-slicktop-32-Valve-Rotissery chicken E30 happens to have a different bolt size on their differential, that they don't cuss all over our comment section because we told them something wrong. Its easier to say, double check your bolts and specs ;)

ANSWER 6 (id: 780_9):
Originally posted by Lkp_318is Video comes up as unavailable. Is there a repost I don't think it is available anymore. It was originally under Salt City Euro's channel, but then one half of that team split off for new ventures and I think took some of the videos with him. This may have been one of those.