QUESTION ID: 129

QUESTION:
I am needing to replace my rear sway bar links. However I am unaware on how to remove the bar from the car to take off the links and press on the new ones. Any insight would be great. Thanks Andy

ANSWER 1 (id: 129_2):
Im sorry. Perhaps I should have been more clear. I know how to take the rear sway bar off of the car. But, how do i take it out from underneath the car to take off the links and press on the new links. I would think there is a better way than to remove the spring... but perhaps not. Andy

ANSWER 2 (id: 129_3):
When I installed mine I had to pull of on wheel and wiggle the bar up over and around the diff and out the outher side. Try first to see if you can pull the links off by hand. I was able to on mine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 129_4):
Do the links on the car. Even if you get the bar out and put the links on, you will almost certainly have to take them back off to get it back on the car. Unless you have the reaar diff dropped or out. It's easy putting them on, I used liquid soap and some really big channel lock pliers.

ANSWER 4 (id: 129_5):
I am replacing my rear sway bar now on my 1992 E30 vert and I am looking for clarification. Can I remove/install the rear sway bar without dropping the subframe or removing a spring? It would be the bar without the links attached.

ANSWER 5 (id: 129_7):
Had trouble finding this information so I figured I would post it here. Removal of the E30 rear swaybar, its a lot of back and forth to find the right spot for it to move. If you pull it through the passenger side rear trailing arm, there is enough room to get it out, as shown in the pics. To put a new swaybar in, I started from the drivers side and pushed it between my spring and my strut, and then wiggling it around until it move where you want it to be. Be sure you don’t put it in upside down! Attached Files

ANSWER 6 (id: 129_8):
I just did mine. Remove drivers side wheel, unbolt lower strut mount and remove spring then pull it out from there. The links will need to be parallel with the bar in order to make it through the slot between the subframe. I pulled the left side out and forward if that makes sense. Goes back in the same angle.