QUESTION ID: 2797

QUESTION:
I've been keeping an eye on used e30 prices for over ten years and I've noticed a trend change. It seems that 24v swapped cars are no longer fetching the premium that they used to over stock cars. Are we entering an era where a clean/stock e30s (or light oem+ such as euroweaves/mtech2/euro headlights) is becoming more valuable/desirable than a modified one (coilovers/5 lug/24v/aftermarket seats/aftermarket wheels)? Or is it all a question of quality?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2797_0):
It's all quality, but swap cars only really demand premium from people who are already into the cars and know what it takes to get it swapped. To an outside buyer it's gonna be tough to justify 2x the price of a clean non-swap car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2797_1):
little teenage dipshits have been priced out of this market-thank god. I think a buyer willing to pay a premium for these is going to want original or a good quality (as in tasteful) restomod. an m52 doesn't really give you more power. it is more modern but it really doesn't fit into either category listed above.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2797_10):
Originally posted by mtech325 Some people detest them because they only want numbers matching cars, while others don't care as much about originality, especially if driven on a daily basis. I noticed more of WTB posts asking for mint e30 325s with all matching body panel stickers,mint paint, original interior etc. There are probably more e30 m3s out there that fit the requirement than 325s. I don’t think people were buying these cars to keep in the garage, under the cover. It’s 30 year old + car that was used daily...most likely. I’m about to repaint my e30 to give it that “mint” look and guess what, all those all original panel stickers will need to go buy buy. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 2797_11):
Originally posted by kronus they'll sell you vin stickers I know that, but it’s not “original “ ..haha. Defeats the purpose of verifying the panel originality...so it pointless, sort of Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 2797_12):
Originally posted by zaq123 I noticed more of WTB posts asking for mint e30 325s with all matching body panel stickers,mint paint, original interior etc. There are probably more e30 m3s out there that fit the requirement than 325s. I don’t think people were buying these cars to keep in the garage, under the cover. It’s 30 year old + car that was used daily...most likely. I’m about to repaint my e30 to give it that “mint” look and guess what, all those all original panel stickers will need to go buy buy. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Great point, this video kind of touches on that. 325i did all the "work" over the years.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2797_3):
Likewise agreed. Not sure I'd ever purchase an m5x/s5x swapped e30 (unless euro s5x) anymore even though I lusted over those after learning of project orca back in the day. Now, I'd prefer a clean all stock to a swapped 24v. BUT if it were a BMW 32v... that's a horse of a different color. I currently lust over those. ;)

ANSWER 7 (id: 2797_4):
I think there are a few factors at play with the current marketplace. Most obvious is that there are simply fewer stock/unmolested examples around than there were 10 years ago, so it's a classic case of supply and demand. The other major change I've noticed is the crowd that's buying the cars. For a long time the e30 was (and still is to some extent) a low buck fun car that was popular with enthusiasts and relatively cheap to keep running. That's why a lot of young kids (myself included) bought them as first cars and drove them into the ground. They weren't classic cars at the time, but merely an old used car. The e36 and e46 have been handed the baton, but slowly even those are starting costing a pretty penny for a clean example. Nowadays the crowd entering into the market for an e30 is older and typically has more disposable income as mentioned already. With that comes a different set of priorities. Toss in the BAT crowd that glorifies how "pure" the driving experience is from the factory, and the stock car becomes even more desirable. As for swap cars/heavily modified cars, quality is king. There are a lot of butchered cars out there, and there are also lot of very tastefully done clean cars. The modified cars are more of a niche market, but get someone that appreciates the merits of a modified example and that car may very well command a premium. It's no different than a hot rod muscle car. Some people detest them because they only want numbers matching cars, while others don't care as much about originality, especially if driven on a daily basis.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2797_5):
Most swapped cars or modified cars i see are butchered to work. (my own included). As hypocritical as it is i don't value messy swapped cars that highly. I dunno about USA, but there are alot of 318i cars going up for sale in Australia for ridiculous money. In Australia the 318i comes with the M40 engine (not the m42), i drove one once and it was not inspiring. I am really skeptical if any of these are selling for the asking price. like are people paying ~$10k AUD for a stock M40 car? I hope not.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2797_6):
M54b30 is still really worth it, imho. Awfully light for the torque. Likewise S54- shit- tons of horsepower just can't be denied. But all that hassle for an m52? I agree, originality starts to sound good... t never though he'd say that about a small 6

ANSWER 10 (id: 2797_8):
I think as these get older stock unmolested really good condition cars will go for more than the swap. I also think the problem with a lot of swaps is what others have said, they are half ass. They basically drop an engine in and the rest of the car is still junk, old bushings, suspension, rust, interior etc. I didn't do mine for resale, I think if I did I would have left it an M20, it would have been a lot easier and cheaper for me to do. I know I have more into it then I will get out, but it was made for me and for the fun I wanted. Tasteful swaps should still pull good money, but I think the market is for enthusiasts more than the E30 buyer who is a collector or is buying one to relive their youth and wants a mint original.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2797_9):
on top of that they include the price of the swap and mods at the crazy e30 going rate. fuck that. remember that guy selling his s54 swap for like 40k? All you guys are right though. young broke guys can't buy these anymore so the appeal of a swap/hella stance flush is not there. more like "ruined".