QUESTION ID: 3041

QUESTION:
Someone shared this on the facebook page. But I figured I post it here for those who haven't seen it. I honestly thought it was a joke or photoshop at first. But no. This is real. And you can actually BUY it. Pardon Our Interruption... http://www.ebay.com/itm/SSworxs-Bmw-E30-Aggressive-Widebody-Fenders-Metal-Panel-Coupe-Convertable-/182559137354?hash=item2a815f5e4a:g:nFYAAOSwT-FZClVx&vxp=mtr "SSworxs Bmw E30 Aggressive Widebody Fenders We have Finally Created a full Metal Kit for your BMW E30 2dr Coupe Convertible.!! this is a weld-on Kit that is DTM inspired. product Includes- Front Left Front right Rear Left Rear Right The Front Fender Portion is made longer to work with several bumpers and is allowed to be adjusted for wheel clearances for your setup! The Rear is the same setup as the Front Fetal Fender Flares are stronger and will last longer! Metal Fenders gives an OEM Feel and style. Professional Installation is Required for perfect results."

ANSWER 1 (id: 3041_13):
that rear wheel looks photoshopped. And by photoshopped I mean windows 98 version of ms-paint. I mean all the power to them for giving it a go. Price is a bit steap, if it was alot cheaper it might suit a lemons car:P

ANSWER 2 (id: 3041_2):
Someone thought "I know, I'll do a garbage wide body kit", had a bunch of "Ehh that's good enough I guess" moments while making this, and thinks that people who actually love their cars will weld this on. I spy with my little eye someone who got tossed down some stairs as a baby. Sent from my SM-N910V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3041_6):
Originally posted by Shangsta Professional installation requires having a fire marshall there to make sure you don't destroy anything else when you set it on fire. Honestly, if you buy this kit you should probably have your garage/shop burned down too. Originally posted by 2mAn shouldnt this be moved to the R3V facebook moments.... sigh didn't think about that...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3041_9):
It looks like it'll add about a foot to the overall body width, ie, super wide car, silly wide tires that will be impossible to find. And it looks like absolute shit. And it costs a grand - I would have guessed maybe $250. Some people just shouldn't bother.