QUESTION ID: 2884

QUESTION:
After 5 years and 30K miles of driving with my M50 swap, I bonked the oil pan something fierce today. If you look behind my car you can see a small water ditch in the road....well it wasn't so small and I didn't see it till the last minute. Shut the car off soon as I hit and coasted to a stop. Dumped 6 quarts of oil all over the streets of Leadville, CO (sorry anyone who lives there) and was stuck. I called AAA for a tow and since I have a gold membership, I get 100 miles of free towing. I was 99.6 miles from my house , just made it. Driver wouldn't be there for another hour and half so I grabbed my BMX and went to the skatepark I was heading to in the first place and made the most of a shitty situation. Tow truck showed up, offered me a rip off his vape pen, loaded up and headed back to Denver. Dude even helped me push it into my garage. So....anyone got an E34 pan you want to sell me? ;D -Nick

ANSWER 1 (id: 2884_10):
better to just find another pan in the local lkq pick a part. you guys have 2 of them in Denver and there is a really good pick a part south of littleton.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2884_3):
Originally posted by 2mAn So is a skid plate part of the repairs? Yep! Originally posted by wworm can tell if you're purposefully throwing up the horns in that sweet tabletop pic or not but its sick (euro af btw) bikes are cool. Ha didn't notice that, not on purpose. Sometimes my fingers just come off

ANSWER 3 (id: 2884_4):
That sucks. 24V and M42 cars need a skid plate badly if they're any lower than stock. I like to crap on stanceboys when this happens to them but your car isn't even that low.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2884_5):
Originally posted by varg That sucks. 24V and M42 cars need a skid plate badly if they're any lower than stock. I like to crap on stanceboys when this happens to them but your car isn't even that low. Yea I'm not that low. H&R springs on bilsteins but the 24v pan sits quite low regardless. I've almost got it off but realized I need to lower the front lower subframe to get it off and I lost motivation last night. On a related note...has anyone had much success welding a pan? Friend of mine said he can tig and the crack looks mostly like a crack and not chunks missing. Would save me a good bit of time and money I could then put towards a skid plate.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2884_6):
Originally posted by Nick_S Yea I'm not that low. H&R springs on bilsteins but the 24v pan sits quite low regardless. I've almost got it off but realized I need to lower the front lower subframe to get it off and I lost motivation last night. On a related note...has anyone had much success welding a pan? Friend of mine said he can tig and the crack looks mostly like a crack and not chunks missing. Would save me a good bit of time and money I could then put towards a skid plate. I cracked my oil pan like 4 years ago and had the crack welded in by my dad's friend. It's held up since then but the crack wasn't that big. Not sure how big yours is.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2884_7):
Originally posted by E30_Narek I cracked my oil pan like 4 years ago and had the crack welded in by my dad's friend. It's held up since then but the crack wasn't that big. Not sure how big yours is. It's pretty big and runs from the top down about halfway across the bottom of the pan. I finally got the pan off tonight. Had to unbolt the engine and trans mounts, unbolt the subframe, then raise and support the engine, lower the sub frame and wiggle it out. Sadly the weld goes right under the baffles in the lower part of the pan so I without being able to weld on both sides I don't want to risk having it leak again later on. Plus the crack goes into the mating surface so it might not be square once welded up. I went ahead and ordered one off ebay tonight.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2884_9):
Take a die grinder and open up the crack into a V shaped groove using a ball burr or the corner of a round burrs. Even a welder with not too much experience should be able to fix your oilpan without concern for leaking. You can always put a second layer over the crack on the outside for more protection. Sent from my XT1053 using Tapatalk