QUESTION ID: 566

QUESTION:
Looking forward to the (intended) improvement over 5.25 SFlute at kicks. (SF’s actually do a decent job down there!) I plan to cut a small hole near the handle side of this where it meets the doorcard to vent for typical door IB. If I want to go back to stock, the hole would be hidden. The pod uses OE screws to mount to door. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 566_0):
That looks really nice. Are these custom made or did you order these? I'd love to get something like this, I just can't bring myself to cut the door panel; hence my under seat solution for now.

ANSWER 2 (id: 566_1):
Front stage upgrade - door pods Audiosport UK has them. The only hole I plan to cut on the door card would be for an air path from these pods to my inner doors and would be concealed with factory parts installed. If you don’t use the door volume, no cutting required with 55-65mm speaker depth and small magnet. I’m spacing mine out 18mm. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 566_13):
Great Hollow Notice how I used three bolts each door to really mount it rigidly, otherwise they may not work so well. Speaker mounts need to be solid Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 566_5):
I made some progress tonight. The PVC adapter rings arrived today. My plan to bolt the pod to the steel worked. I still need to vent, deaden & wire it, but at least I know it goes together with some rigidity. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 566_6):
Wow those look pretty awesome actually. Much better than the monstrosities people normally mount over the existing speaker locations. How does the pod's plastic match with the rest of the door's armrest plastic? Little hard to tell in the pictures the texture and shininess.

ANSWER 6 (id: 566_9):
Done! Sounds great! Can’t wait to tune! I’m glad I decided to upgrade the tweeters. These sound much better than the Dayton ND25FN-4. It’s almost like these Audison grills were made with E30 in mind! That clearance is uncanny! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk