QUESTION ID: 2337

QUESTION:
Here is the dilemma, I was going to plateless in the front on my E30 like it is now. I didnt realize that the front bumper on the Mtech 2 kit I have had the holes already predrilled from the factory for the euro plate, So now I want to cover it up and not sure which way to go. My rear plate is just E30 in black and red since it's Chicago Bull's plate. I am trying to decide two things, first should I just leave it E30 to match the rear plate, or add the S54 in and then which version of the plate do I want. I am leaning toward one but I will hold that so I don't influence the poll. Pics below correspond with the poll options 1) 2) 3) 4) 5) 6) 7)

ANSWER 1 (id: 2337_0):
If it's not an issue to not run a state issued front plate then go for it, but keep it the same text as the rear plate so LEOs elsewhere don't think you're being shady.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2337_1):
Originally posted by roguetoaster If it's not an issue to not run a state issued front plate then go for it, but keep it the same text as the rear plate so LEOs elsewhere don't think you're being shady. We need front plates in IL, but the only people that bother you about are parking officials in downtown Chicago which I dont bring the car there much. None of my other cars have front plates accept my wife's X5 because she hates popping the plate on when we go to the city. I have a bracket that I pop on the other cars when I park in the city. That being said I was thinking the same thing should I match the Euro plate as close to the front one. I dont think I will get bothered in the suburbs much.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2337_2):
Looks like the E30 Flag plate wins it. I put a space in there to match closer to my rear US plate. It was the one I was leaning toward so glad it one.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2337_4):
Originally posted by moatilliatta I think the red E 30 match’s bulls rear plate. I wonder if you could add the BU stacked at the end of the euro plate. Illinois a front plate state? It is, although I have never had front plates on my cars. They really only bother you with parking at the Airport and in the City. I have a hidden bracket on my other cars that I can velcro the front plate on when I park at the airport or downtown. Its a $60 ticket otherwise. I have received a few of them over the years before I started the Velcro trick.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2337_5):
1 or 5. 1 is traditional and matches the factory BMW roundel. 5 is more decorative and matches the rear kinda but they are on different ends of the car. If you can get the Bulls logo instead of the Eagle then perhaps city officials wouldn't bother =].

ANSWER 6 (id: 2337_6):
Originally posted by reelizmpro 1 or 5. 1 is traditional and matches the factory BMW roundel. 5 is more decorative and matches the rear kinda but they are on different ends of the car. If you can get the Bulls logo instead of the Eagle then perhaps city officials wouldn't bother =]. Haha that’s possible. I am not the hugest Bulls fan although I do like them, the plate looked good and my wife was tied to the org at one time so that’s why I got that plate.