QUESTION ID: 1598
TOPIC: suspension_upgrade

QUESTION:
and have driven roughly 20K miles since. I put the car on the lift yesterday to take a closer look at why my steering was a little loose and had play, and my friend suspected its the U-joint that has failed. While up on the lift, i noticed both (drivers + pass) side of my inner axle boots have torn + the outer ones look severely dry rotted already. I installed them brand new June/July of 2011. Is this common to tear this quickly? They don't appear to have torn from anything I had driven over, rather just from the flex of the suspension + maybe premature dryrot? Not sure if there are other factors internally that can cause premature boot tearing. I wanna make sure before I go thru the hell of replacing these boots again.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1598_0):
Is the car lowered a significant amount? Where they BMW parts or cheap boots? I have done boots on previous cars to have them fail after 8 months or so. My problem was cheap boots.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1598_1):
I've heard there are cheap aftermarket boots that do not last very long. they are hard/plasticky, apparently. the only boot that's ever given me problems while being lowered is the passenger inner boot, because it's so close to my headers. it's been fine since I got them ceramic coated but I still want to make some sort of heat shield. I've never had a drivers side boot fail, except for the original 140k mile inner ones right after I dropped the car on H&Rs. It failed within 20 miles, lol.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1598_11):
This is disappointing seeing as I had them all replaced two years ago and have yet to drive the car since. Even more disappointing is the fact that I have two more full sets of the oem equiventlents as backstock some of them are even labeled as Ford as I believed the part manufacturer reused the same part on a focus years later. Would you guys think that giving the non BMW ones some sorta of soaking coat of a protectant would help soften them up? I would think it'd be worth a shot to try and prolong their life before buying the BMW ones. Maybe giving them protectant might help prolong the life of them. Any thoughts?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1598_13):
Originally posted by audiquattrot Just tore another one. 3rd or 4th time Ive had to change them....Im guessing there still is no silicone option for the ixs yet? Anything unusual about the boot-process on the iX? I'm hoping it isn't much different than this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-S-ofMoWsr0&t=114s If there's an iX-specific DIY out there, I'd appreciate a link :)

ANSWER 5 (id: 1598_2):
Originally posted by future rs Is the car lowered a significant amount? Where they BMW parts or cheap boots? I have done boots on previous cars to have them fail after 8 months or so. My problem was cheap boots. Originally posted by nando I've heard there are cheap aftermarket boots that do not last very long. they are hard/plasticky, apparently. the only boot that's ever given me problems while being lowered is the passenger inner boot, because it's so close to my headers. it's been fine since I got them ceramic coated but I still want to make some sort of heat shield. I've never had a drivers side boot fail, except for the original 140k mile inner ones right after I dropped the car on H&Rs. It failed within 20 miles, lol. I used GKN Loebro ones which i thought were the same manufacturer as OEM? The car is on H&R sport springs + bilstein HD shocks. Its not that low at all. I'll look into the OEM BMW ones.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1598_3):
those are the ones I have too. Somebody told me they aren't the same as the ones you get from BMW. they're certainly much cheaper. maybe I'll try the BMW part for the one that I keep breaking, and use the cheap ones everywhere else.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1598_4):
Originally posted by nando those are the ones I have too. Somebody told me they aren't the same as the ones you get from BMW. they're certainly much cheaper. maybe I'll try the BMW part for the one that I keep breaking, and use the cheap ones everywhere else. Yeah I just added the OEM BMW ones to my large order i just placed :(. I'll let you know if they appear to be the same as the GKN ones. I do remember the GKN ones being a hard plastic out of the box.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1598_6):
got the new boots in the mail saturday.....the OEM axle boots are pure rubber unlike the cheap ones I ordered from AutohausAZ which were hard plastic. Hopefully this time around it won't tear on me as easily as the GKN Loebro ones

ANSWER 9 (id: 1598_7):
interesting find, good to know! FWIW I've never had the GKN boot fail on the outters or driver's inner. the passenger inner boot seems to last maybe 1 year though.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1598_8):
Originally posted by nando interesting find, good to know! FWIW I've never had the GKN boot fail on the outters or driver's inner. the passenger inner boot seems to last maybe 1 year though. yeah the GKN ones on the outer's are fine on mine....it was both inners that tore on me. I did notice some cracking on the outers though when i inspected it last week, so even though its only a yr old, i'm changing all inners & outers w/ the OEM ones. Hopefully this is the last time i have to mess w/ this for a while!