QUESTION ID: 243

QUESTION:
This might be a pretty stupid question: I have a four-post lift and am wondering if I can keep the weight on the suspension (maintaining the wheels on the lift ramps) to remove the Lollipops and then put them back. Are the Lollipops under some pressure and as I remove them they will spring out and I will not be able to bolt them back in?

ANSWER 1 (id: 243_0):
Just in case someone is wondering, I replaced the Control Arm Bushings today and left the wheels on the ramps. Disassembly happened with no issue, but after replacing the Bushings, by the time I tried to bolt the Lollipops back in, they did not align with the frame holes. So, I had to raise the car and then without the car weight on the suspension, I could move them back into position. I lubricated them with dishsoap and I think the story about retightening and put the weight back in within 30 minutes was relatively easy with the lift. I also replaced the Sway Bar Drop Links. These ones, upon disassembly one of the nuts that secure the Drop Link Holder to the Control Arm left flying. Thankfully not in my direction. In order to assemble the Holder back in place I had to raise the car and then slowly lower it to make the thing align to the bolt hole. One of the Control Arm Bushings was pretty bad and the other one on its way. One of the Sway Bar Drop Links had its rubber boot ripped and was very loose, the other one was much better. I replaced both. I used the home made tool from this thread from MexxiKing: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...l-removal-tool It worked beautifully, although I had to first remove the Lollipops and then the rest of the rubber that stayed stuck to the CAs. The passenger side was a bit more challenging because of the Exhaust and one of its Heat Protector plates, that stayed on the way a bit, but my son helped me tremendously. I read some people managed to push the Bushings back in using brute force. I don't think I would be able to do it. I tried and gave up almost immediately. I replace the CAB by the offset ones (M3) and the steering feel during a short test drive seemed to have improved tremendously. Pretty happy so far. Hope this stay tight over time.