QUESTION ID: 2139

QUESTION:
After finishing up my suspension work over the spring (report and measurements to come on that once I can actually drive the car), I went out to Tire Rack and had some Yokohama Advans mounted on my new 15x7 Maxilite wheels (purchased through Pelican Parts). Bolted them on when I got home to give her a shakedown and... click...click...click... Turns out, the Maxilites are shallower than stock BMW rims in the lug relief and the bolts are hitting the parking brake mechanism in the rear hubs. Seems like the stock bolts are about 5mm too long. Anyone have a source for shorter bolts? I'm thinking M12 x 1.5 x 20mm is the size that should work just fine. Seeing a few offerings in Europe, but I'd really like to get them quickly if possible. In the meantime, I guess I'm just going to go with some 5mm spacers. Thanks in advance for any tips on where I might look.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2139_0):
I would cut them with a hack saw This is how I do it- Get a m12 1.5 nut, spin her down to the length you want, cut, take the nut off- that will clean the threads up for you and do that 19 more times.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2139_1):
I have a collection of wheel bolts from owning and parting out BMW's over the years. I'll check my stash tomorrow to see if I have something that would work.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2139_2):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I would cut them with a hack saw This is how I do it- Get a m12 1.5 nut, spin her down to the length you want, cut, take the nut off- that will clean the threads up for you and do that 19 more times. This was my first instinct, but was unsure if it was okay to cut case hardened bolts. And was a bit worried about getting the lead-in thread right. Good to know that you've had no prob with that. I may give it a go.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2139_3):
Originally posted by BoostinEuros I have a collection of wheel bolts from owning and parting out BMW's over the years. I'll check my stash tomorrow to see if I have something that would work. Thanks, Boostin! I appreciate it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2139_4):
Originally posted by Johnny Haywire Thanks, Boostin! I appreciate it. I checked my stash, the shortest wheel bolts I had have a thread length of 25mm... Might be best to run a thin hubcentric spacer. Or check out Otis wheel bolts out of California. They sell custom spec wheel bolts.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2139_6):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I would cut them with a hack saw This is how I do it- Get a m12 1.5 nut, spin her down to the length you want, cut, take the nut off- that will clean the threads up for you and do that 19 more times. +1 I did this after ordering a set of spacers with slightly-too-long extended lug bolts. FWIW I also spent some time cleaning and tapering the ends with a file.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2139_7):
Thanks for all the tips and for digging through your parts bins, guys! I ended up using a nut to set the depth like MrBurgundy mentioned, then cutting them down with an angle grinder, with a bit of finish work on the bench grinder with a fine grit wheel. Wheels are now bolted up and I'm driving the car again!

ANSWER 8 (id: 2139_8):
Originally posted by Johnny Haywire Thanks for all the tips and for digging through your parts bins, guys! I ended up using a nut to set the depth like MrBurgundy mentioned, then cutting them down with an angle grinder, with a bit of finish work on the bench grinder with a fine grit wheel. Wheels are now bolted up and I'm driving the car again! Glad you got it sorted! Any pics of the new wheels on the car?

ANSWER 9 (id: 2139_9):
Originally posted by Panici Glad you got it sorted! Any pics of the new wheels on the car? Haven't had a chance to get her to any scenic locations, but here's a couple!