QUESTION ID: 3034

QUESTION:
AKA the 2017 reboot with three hosts no one has heard of. Discuss.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3034_0):
Not too much to add. Just not the same and I have tried to get interested a couple times. I end up switching it every time, it's boring. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3034_1):
..and I was just starting to like the 3 guys on the show. I guess it sucks to be a TG host, because they keep leaving the shows. Either that, or the producers think they're D.Trump by firing people all the time.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3034_10):
I loved the last 3 hosts. They sucked for the first season or 2, then they really figured out the show, and it just became really enjoyable. I lasted 10 minutes in the first episode of the new show, and really have no interest in watching more. It was just awful, really boring and wooden.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3034_2):
Originally posted by Aleman Either that, or the producers think they're D.Trump by firing people all the time. Chuckles - thanks for livening up my Monday :D I haven't seen any of the rebooted version yet, just the trailers on TV. I'll have to watch a few episodes before I start judging things. The last bunch never really seemed organic to me.....a lot of scripting and forced reactions from an event. I hope this reboot can capture something more genuine. Jon

ANSWER 5 (id: 3034_3):
I think they should have kept Rutledge and ditched Adam and probably Tanner. To me, it seemed Adam was the odd man out who A) wasn't into cars, B) wasn't funny, and C) didn't even know how to drive. At least Tanner seemed to know his shit and was a good driver. They probably could have gotten away with just replacing Adam with gearhead. Given the current revamp, BBCA seems to think we need actors, not car people, as our presenters.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3034_4):
Originally posted by DrJosh I think they should have kept Rutledge and ditched Adam and probably Tanner. To me, it seemed Adam was the odd man out who A) wasn't into cars, B) wasn't funny, and C) didn't even know how to drive. At least Tanner seemed to know his shit and was a good driver. They probably could have gotten away with just replacing Adam with gearhead. Given the current revamp, BBCA seems to think we need actors, not car people, as our presenters. Agreed, I liked Rutledge, I would have kept Tanner he was an awesome driver. I didnt mind Adam but he didnt add too much so he could go. The problem with these type of shows is it takes time to build chemistry, the producers want immediate success or cancelled. The BBC TG was not that great way at the beginning, infact boring, it took a while to change it. You cant just throw three people in with pretty much the exact same story line and expect it to be good. Character development is a lost art these days. I think the old TG US was getting better toward the end, if they would have given it another season or two to gain its own legs it may have been ok.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3034_5):
These new host are ones I wouldn't have expected. Never saw Antron Brown as a tv personality but he is pretty out going when ever you see him on the NHRA races. Hopefully once they build some chemistry it wont seem so scripted.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3034_7):
Originally posted by mjposner They fired the old hosts due to poor ratings... UK Top Gear now has an american actor as lead, so that is why William Fichtner is on the show. I get firing for poor ratings, but this is a show that needs runway to build. I think they were expecting too much.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3034_8):
I don't think you can successfully replicate what happend at the BBC with Clarkson, Hammond, and May. It's why amazon pays them huge money and gives them.nearly a blank check for a filming budget now. It's why many people got the prime service to see what those 3 idiots are going to do with more atonomy, more cash and less censorship......

ANSWER 10 (id: 3034_9):
Originally posted by mrsleeve I don't think you can successfully replicate what happend at the BBC with Clarkson, Hammond, and May. It's why amazon pays them huge money and gives them.nearly a blank check for a filming budget now. It's why many people got the prime service to see what those 3 idiots are going to do with more atonomy, more cash and less censorship...... Yep those three are actual best friends they weren't picked from a line up like the others. You cant script genuine chemistry and friendship. I cant wait for the next season of GT to come out