QUESTION ID: 3376

QUESTION:
Any ideas as to its value. Solid #3 car arrived here from Sicily in June. Passed inspection and currently registered.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3376_1):
Euro E30 Convertible Is there something that you don't understand regarding the designation as 'solid #3 car'? My guess is that you wouldn't have a clue if given a month of Sundays to inspect it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3376_11):
Euro 320I convertible Originally posted by djjerme Any rust? nothing notable solid floors and trunk Mileage? 157,000 Kilometers Transmission? 5 speed Factory options? power windows? All stock? except for single CD head unit Paint color? Red with gray and black cloth interior. Two dash cracks Everything works 100%? as far as i can tell That is what he means in that we would need to know some details before even giving any kind of idea of a worth. Just a valuation of a clean vert - $1500. It doesn't matter if it came from Europe, there is a ton of verts here and they aren't highly sought after. With it being a smaller motor and no idea of the transmission or options, we are left to assume it's a base model, automatic car. Thus $1000-$1500.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3376_2):
Well, why don't you pull out your Hagerty table and look ot up? Oh, wait, that doesn't exist because standard E30s aren't considered collectable cars in that way, too bad. You really need to understand that E30s are so common that the value is heavily linked to options and appearance, not just a simple number system (which is a flawed way to express condition unless you are an experienced professional appraiser). Don't be such a asshole in any case, no matter who/what you are, as you asked the same neophyte type question that so many new members do, and frankly it's quite tiresome.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3376_3):
Euro 320I convertible Hemmings valuation guide worked well for me when I sold my E28 M5. And yes, these vehicles are not listed which is why I went to this group for an estimate. Given that you don't have anything to offer, perhaps it would have been better that you refrained from chiming in. Much less tiresome. But wait, this was your opportunity to impress the noobie.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3376_4):
Originally posted by whoooopy Any ideas as to its value. Solid #3 car arrived here from Sicily in June. Passed inspection and currently registered. Any rust? Mileage? Transmission? Factory options? All stock? Paint color? Everything works 100%? That is what he means in that we would need to know some details before even giving any kind of idea of a worth. Just a valuation of a clean vert - $1500. It doesn't matter if it came from Europe, there is a ton of verts here and they aren't highly sought after. With it being a smaller motor and no idea of the transmission or options, we are left to assume it's a base model, automatic car. Thus $1000-$1500.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3376_5):
Originally posted by whoooopy Hemmings valuation guide worked well for me when I sold my E28 M5. And yes, these vehicles are not listed which is why I went to this group for an estimate. Given that you don't have anything to offer, perhaps it would have been better that you refrained from chiming in. Much less tiresome. But wait, this was your opportunity to impress the noobie. As rogue stated, there are already a million threads here where some shitstain noob posts about one or two sentences with no description or pics but expects a certified appraisal. It can't be done with the info you provided but 1500.00 is a good start. No one gives a shit if a late model vert is euro because it is 97% the same as a North American model. In fact, if it is a stripped down version(320i), it would be worth less. If it has euro bumpers in good shape, you can add about 500.00. You should probably check your cavalier attitude. If you keep talking like that around here, you are going to get ripped to shreds. No one is going to help you if you don't show a little humility. Stop being a defensive asshole. Good luck with your search

ANSWER 7 (id: 3376_6):
Originally posted by whoooopy Hemmings valuation guide worked well for me when I sold my E28 M5. And yes, these vehicles are not listed which is why I went to this group for an estimate. Given that you don't have anything to offer, perhaps it would have been better that you refrained from chiming in. Much less tiresome. But wait, this was your opportunity to impress the noobie. Same old story, new guy asks r3v what a car is work, doesn't like what he hears, noob accuses member of being an idiot. Why would anyone make any effort to impress someone who comes across like you anyway? Standard E30s are not listed because there are far too many factors that determine exact value (at least to the enthusiast community). If you cannot understand that then there is likely nothing that we can do for you.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3376_8):
I voted ban. Car worth about $1500-2500 unless we get some pictures, maintenance records, options, etc. Otherwise if it runs, it's worth just a bit more than a parts car.