QUESTION ID: 2125

QUESTION:
Someones e30 caught on fire and this is the 4th one that I know of locally that has had an engine fire. I know the main culprit is old cracked or wrong fuel lines but it got me thinking about being more proactive. I bought an element e100 fire non-corrosive fire extinguisher and I'm also thinking about the BlazeCut tubing to put under the hood since a fire can render the hood release inoperable. Does anyone have any experience with this or know of an alternative? https://www.amazon.com/BlazeCut-Syst...8Q35BBG7&psc=1

ANSWER 1 (id: 2125_0):
I've had fuel lines leak under my hood for miles before and nothing caught fire. I'm not saying it's a good thing. I would think the fuel would have to spray on the header for it to ignite. Crazy...

ANSWER 2 (id: 2125_1):
Originally posted by 808ETA Someones e30 caught on fire and this is the 4th one that I know of locally that has had an engine fire. I know the main culprit is old cracked or wrong fuel lines IMO using high quality fuel lines (gates, etc) and proper fuel line hose clamps is the most important step. If you're that worried I would add replacing soft lines to your 5 year maintenance plan. Maybe there is a also a fuel line sleeve available which would contain a leak around the lines/fittings?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2125_10):
Originally posted by 2mAn This isnt a new issue. The fuel lines in the engine bay are typically very old and unless you've replaced them or have proof they've been replaced then the assumption is that your car could ignite at any time. Dont need fire suppression, just need fresh fuel lines. OEM lines I just get paranoid sometimes. I'll be driving down the road and if someone is barbecuing or there is a weird smell my first thought is that my car is on fire

ANSWER 4 (id: 2125_11):
Originally posted by bmwman91 Yeah, IMO the fuel soft-lines should be considered 5-year wear items. Sure, plenty of them make it 20 years without burning the car down, but they are inexpensive and take an afternoon to replace. The only ones that I think are a hassle are the ones back at the fuel tank...the hose clamp for the feed line is really awkward to get at (and might not be accessible depending on the orientation it was installed in), and the return line needs to be snaked along the top which isn't too hard to do, but kind of annoying and you need to try to not get dirt in the hose as you do it. The tank hoses probably last longer than the under-hood ones since they do not get nearly as hot. As far as brands, I use either OEM BMW, Continental, or Cohline. They are worth the small incremental cost increase over OE brands like CRP. I'm going to add the 5 year line change to my list. I have Gates 4219BF Barricade hose. I'm an OEM and while I'm in there type of guy so I don't skimp on the parts, I read some of the horror stories about generic and non FI rated hoses.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2125_12):
Originally posted by Digitalwave I have seen some race cars with something like that BlazeCut mounted to the underside of the hood, but I have never seen it actually tested/used to see if it's effective at putting out an engine fire. Keep in mind fuel fires are going to take more than a small hand held bottle to put out. If you want to see something eye opening, go find the recent video of Collette Davis's Corvette having a fuel fire on track. I think it took five 5lb bottles to put it out. Whoa! That's crazy. Those extinguishers were way too small, they only have a discharge rate of 11-14 seconds. I guess the blazecut would discharge fast too but it sounds like it fights the fire differently. I bought the Element fire extinguishers for the100 second discharge rate and non- corrosive chemical. https://elementfire.com/products/element-e100

ANSWER 6 (id: 2125_2):
When I bought my e30 the fuel feed line was spraying across the engine bay. Probably would have burned down on the drive home if I didn't change it. Maybe that was a sign that the car wasn't the best example....?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2125_3):
This isnt a new issue. The fuel lines in the engine bay are typically very old and unless you've replaced them or have proof they've been replaced then the assumption is that your car could ignite at any time. Dont need fire suppression, just need fresh fuel lines. OEM lines

ANSWER 8 (id: 2125_4):
Yeah, IMO the fuel soft-lines should be considered 5-year wear items. Sure, plenty of them make it 20 years without burning the car down, but they are inexpensive and take an afternoon to replace. The only ones that I think are a hassle are the ones back at the fuel tank...the hose clamp for the feed line is really awkward to get at (and might not be accessible depending on the orientation it was installed in), and the return line needs to be snaked along the top which isn't too hard to do, but kind of annoying and you need to try to not get dirt in the hose as you do it. The tank hoses probably last longer than the under-hood ones since they do not get nearly as hot. As far as brands, I use either OEM BMW, Continental, or Cohline. They are worth the small incremental cost increase over OE brands like CRP.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2125_5):
I have seen some race cars with something like that BlazeCut mounted to the underside of the hood, but I have never seen it actually tested/used to see if it's effective at putting out an engine fire. Keep in mind fuel fires are going to take more than a small hand held bottle to put out. If you want to see something eye opening, go find the recent video of Collette Davis's Corvette having a fuel fire on track. I think it took five 5lb bottles to put it out.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2125_6):
I've watch over the last sort years 16 12 1 180 409 By CRP fall apart and have to redo jobs in cars multiple times PSA PSA PSA PSA OVER AND OVER PSA! . Old stye OEM green label hose that was pretty good is long gone. Now I only use the blue label 13 53 7 563 456 from the dealer or Continental. Something happen'd a few years ago, even the "bulk" power steering hose is garbage unless ordered from dealer.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2125_7):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop I've had fuel lines leak under my hood for miles before and nothing caught fire. I'm not saying it's a good thing. I would think the fuel would have to spray on the header for it to ignite. Crazy... I think you got lucky on that one!

ANSWER 12 (id: 2125_8):
Originally posted by Panici IMO using high quality fuel lines (gates, etc) and proper fuel line hose clamps is the most important step. If you're that worried I would add replacing soft lines to your 5 year maintenance plan. Maybe there is a also a fuel line sleeve available which would contain a leak around the lines/fittings? I only use OEM parts on the car and have Gates 4219BF Barricade hose. I like the idea of changing the lines every 5 years. I'm just wondering if it would be worth it to have an extra line of defense just in case.

ANSWER 13 (id: 2125_9):
Originally posted by Kelso840 When I bought my e30 the fuel feed line was spraying across the engine bay. Probably would have burned down on the drive home if I didn't change it. Maybe that was a sign that the car wasn't the best example....? LOL Sometimes we're blinded by love