QUESTION ID: 2380

QUESTION:
I've been an active (less so since my e30 was totaled) member of the e30 community since 2012. Most recognizably for selling center console cup holders on the forums and in this group. Within that time I've worked on numerous cars and have built up a lot of experience wrenching. Something that has always plagued me when wrenching was the complete lack of organization when it comes to both DIYs and torque specs for us garage mechanics. I recently launched an app related to torque specs on the Apple AppStore. It allows you to create "Playlists" that outline a job and keep torque specs for that job in an easy to reference list. The plan is to extend support for most cars but for now it revolves around older BMWs. I’d also like to add support for sharing Playlists and more of a DIY article approach, but that’s for the future. Given that R3v and the e30 community is where everything started for me, it only makes sense that I reach out to this community first. I really think that this app will add value to a lot of individuals in this community both now and (if it’s successful) through future updates. If you have an iPhone and some spare time, I would love feedback on both the idea and the app itself. This is still the first version but because I’m an app developer myself, any feedback can go immediately into the next version. https://apps.apple.com/us/app/torq-app/id1558567695

ANSWER 1 (id: 2380_1):
Originally posted by nando Neat idea. Is there a list of cars that this supports? Thanks! Yes, I've put the list below. Alternatively the list is also on the app. The real problem right now is data aggregation and cleaning. The torque specs I currently have were compiled and cleaned by hand and I'm sure this will have to be the process going forward. I'd love to support more cars and engines but I really need help with data capture -- I need reliable, bulk sources of torque specs for a specific series of cars or platforms. There's no good public dataset in existence as is so I'm really adding each car by hand at this point. There may be formatting oddities here because I pulled the list directly from my code. Note that it also supports ix and M variants of all these platforms. Cars: BMW E31, BMW E32, BMW E39, BMW E23, BMW E36, BMW E34, BMW E30, BMW E38, BMW E24 Engines: BMW M52, BMW M21, BMW M41, BMW M20, BMW S70, BMW M40, BMW S50, BMW S38, BMW M62, BMW M50, BMW M61, BMW M44, BMW M70, BMW S14, BMW M51, BMW M10, BMW M42, BMW M43, BMW M73, BMW M30, BMW S52, BMW M60

ANSWER 2 (id: 2380_2):
Great idea! I find it also too cumbersome to sometimes find the correct torque spec and having to search everything. However do you also plan on making this available on Android? Going of from the screenshot on the app store, I think it would be better if the torque spec is already listed on the "subject"? rather than having to press an extra time for it to show up.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2380_3):
Originally posted by D.Martijn Great idea! I find it also too cumbersome to sometimes find the correct torque spec and having to search everything. However do you also plan on making this available on Android? Going of from the screenshot on the app store, I think it would be better if the torque spec is already listed on the "subject"? rather than having to press an extra time for it to show up. If I'm able to find an Android developer who's interested in making the app then I will certainly consider bringing it to Android. For now, I'm more seeing if the idea takes and if it does, then I will do market research into what sector or feature sets to go into next. I do agree that it would be nice to have the torque specs right there. The problem is that there are a lot of torque specs that are actually sequences. Some of the torque spec I have in my database are actually 8 part sequences! I think a large part of the app that isn't built out yet is the "Playlist" portion. This will allow users to create lists and in the future share those lists with other people. That way when you search for a spec you can actually just search for the job and a Playlist will come up with all the specs you need!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2380_4):
Ok, I first read this as 'calling all garbage mechanics'- so I immediately identified and clicked. Next, I thought you were making an app that would calculate torque based on acceleration data. Now, I'm sitting here thinking, I own several torque wrenches, but my right arm's pretty well calibrated, so I seldom use them, and... ,,,hmmm... maybe I need another drinq. Back in a bit. t