QUESTION ID: 2949

QUESTION:
I ordered a some parts from CAtuned 3 months ago. They said it could take 4-8 weeks for delivery which is fine, but that came and went. While they originally were somewhat responsive to emails, I haven't received a reply to an email in a month when they said I would have my stuff in a week. The phone contact on their site has never been answered in the 10 times I have tried to call since placing the order. Anyone have contact info for these guys? They have cool stuff on their site but this non-existent customer service is crazy.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2949_0):
I sent Igor a message via Facebook and Instagram. Along with their catuned main instagram. They are more active there than here, so you should get a reply soon. Even with Sema prep/stuff they should have someone answering the phone though.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2949_11):
Odd - I placed a small order with them a couple weeks ago for a ZHP shift knob and it shipped out on time and I received it a day ahead of scheduled. I did however have to message them on instagram to confirm the order because I never received any sort of confirmation email at all. That being said, once I messaged them on instagram, Igore sent me a pic of the order sheet with the tracking info on it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2949_2):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 I have noticed it seems CAtuned is more worried about hourly updates their Instagram then they are answering emails and phones. They literally just posted an hour ago on instagram. I noticed that too, hence why I sent a message to that account and Igor's account for OP.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2949_4):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 I have noticed it seems CAtuned is more worried about hourly updates their Instagram then they are answering emails and phones. This is the most frustrating part, you see the insta posts but you know they haven't responded to the emails you have sent over the past week. I know hey are busy with SEMA but paying customers should come first and it is not like I just sprang this on them. It was ordered 3 months ago.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2949_7):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 I have noticed it seems CAtuned is more worried about hourly updates their Instagram then they are answering emails and phones. I know a lot of girls who are like this too