QUESTION ID: 3009

QUESTION:
I love this. https://youtu.be/3gx2wolMzaQ (Can we not embed youtube videos anymore?)

ANSWER 1 (id: 3009_2):
Originally posted by TobyB Crap. It's a CVCC. Is the engine sticking right up against the grille? t EV usually means motors, not engine. anyways. A-pillar doesnt pass DOT. reverse doors dont sell, there are no bumpers and it looks about 15% too small to fit a normal sized person.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3009_4):
I was in Frankfurt last weekend for IAA and this caught my eye while on my way to the BMW expo...i really dig the build. The front fascia definitely has a familiar shape... IMG_8903 IMG_8901 IMG_8899 IMG_8897 IMG_8902

ANSWER 3 (id: 3009_5):
I think it looks great - a refreshing change from stuff like this: it's like car makers have decided the more gilles/grilles/flares/angles they add, the better..

ANSWER 4 (id: 3009_7):
Originally posted by nando - a refreshing change from stuff like this: I'll say! The "Angry Birds with Creases" era of design. To those saying it looks familiar - it takes its cues off the first gen Civic. I've never been a Honda guy, but I can see their point in starting at the beginning of a new era. I like the imagery of the round lights for familiarity and connection, but with modern lights inside that. The A-posts will certainly be beefed up for production. The grille screens front & rear will likely go away. Can a suicide door meet safety regs, I don't know..? Would it make it easier to get into from a wheelchair? (Not too many coupes these days for Para's using hand controls). The bench seat is an interesting choice - would they go forward with that? The chief in Frankfurt said it will be "here" in 2019 - in Europe? ..in NA? <EDIT> Probably won't come with white Alpina wheels either! Interesting choice - because Frankfurt?

ANSWER 5 (id: 3009_8):
Angry birds with creases, lol - I love that. I like those clear screens on the lights - makes it look sleek. Plus, it would be super easy to wash. Washing our X5 with it's 5 bazillion creases, grills and flares is a pain in the ass. Regarding the A-pillars - they might get beefier, but realize that the windscreen is going all the way to the edge - I think that makes it look substantially thinner than it really is.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3009_9):
Yeah, agree, if you bond the windshield over the top of the post and make it look thinner, that's good. And then it's all black. Modern (safe) cars have such big posts now. Wonder if it will come in other colors. Anyone read about its likely charging range?