QUESTION ID: 3257

QUESTION:
Sorry for another insurance thread. I've read many insurance threads here and still have some questions about Hagerty insurance? How strict are they on the restrictions when you have a claim? Does anyone on here have experience with a claim when not following the restrictions? Here is my situation: I have 2 of my Bimmers insured with Hagerty. I'm having a difficult time NEVER driving the Hagerty cars to work. I have garage space for all of my cars, but the big garage is not at my house, so I also have trouble NEVER parking the Hagerty cars in the driveway at my house overnight. I get the impression that a lot of people lie to the collector car insurance companies. Are they just taking the huge risk? I'm concerned about a claim getting denied, especially if I'm responsible for someone else's car or (heaven forbid) someone gets inured. Has anyone selected the "occasionally drive the car to work" option with Hagery? Will they still cover your E30 or other older Bimmer if you select that option? Any personal experience or other advice would be greatly appreciated. Thanks, Cory

ANSWER 1 (id: 3257_10):
I've had collector insurance with JB Taylor in Florida and like most other insurers they want to see your e30 garaged and that you also have a newer car as a DD. They also wanted to know that I had more cars than licensed drivers in the house which cost my Dear Mom her license :) For what it costs to insure them in NC (less than $500/car) it's just not worth the hassle to deal with the restrictions on collector insurance. Yes, I don't get agreed value but they still pay "market" for a totaled car. I got $3k for my 84 318i several years ago whhe chnwas unheard of money and I kept the car which I later sold for $4k with a branded title after spending $1500 to freshen it up. Has anyone ever received a check for an astonomical declared value after a total loss ?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3257_11):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Has anyone ever received a check for an astonomical declared value after a total loss ? Im pretty sure Joel (OlDrunkenSailor) did when his LS3 E30 was totalled by an idiot who ran a red light, enough so that he was able to build it again using a touring as a chassis

ANSWER 3 (id: 3257_2):
Shelter insurance. I use them they have no requirements my car can sit under a tree and be daily driven they will still give me my 20k if something happens no questions asked.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3257_4):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Shelter insurance. I use them they have no requirements my car can sit under a tree and be daily driven they will still give me my 20k if something happens no questions asked. Is it an agreed value policy? I think I jumped the gun with Hagerty. An off-handed comment by a Liberty Mutual customer service rep got me really worried about how little they would pay me if any of my older Bimmers got totaled, so I switched. I've seen several posts on various forums about Grundy offering classic car insurance with fewer restrictions, and your comment also gives me hope for Shelter being an option. Thanks, Cory

ANSWER 5 (id: 3257_5):
Daily drive with Hagerty insurance? Originally posted by cory58 Is it an agreed value policy? I think I jumped the gun with Hagerty. An off-handed comment by a Liberty Mutual customer service rep got me really worried about how little they would pay me if any of my older Bimmers got totaled, so I switched. I've seen several posts on various forums about Grundy offering classic car insurance with fewer restrictions, and your comment also gives me hope for Shelter being an option. Thanks, Cory Yes its agree'd value policy. I will say my insurance agent is an old family friend and I don't know if he bent the rules for me at all. So keep that in mind if you call them up and they say something a little different.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3257_9):
I've got my MGB and e30 on Hagerty and they are listed as show cars and pleasure driving vehicles. I've got agreed upon value on both and because they aren't listed strictly as show cars they can be driven to and from work occasionally (which does happen, more so the e30 than the B). I've never had to file a claim on either of them, but I don't imagine there would be any trouble if one of the cars was damaged while parked outside of the garage rather than in the garage.