QUESTION ID: 654

QUESTION:
I have a momo mod 08 I need to install, the car is an airbag model. I cannot for the life of me find a good DIY write up on this, if anyone can point me in the direction of a good DIY to follow that would be appreciated. The instructions that came with the hub are just vague pictures, no written instructions. I mainly need help with knowing where to put the spacer, and how to do the horn wiring.

ANSWER 1 (id: 654_0):
Here's my list: 1) with the steering wheel locked, remove the 4 torx screws that secure the airbag, then remove the nut that secures the wheel. 2) unlock the column with the key, remove the wheel and remove the white plastic peg/spring (put this away for safekeeping) 3) with the column unlocked....remove any spacer on the column and install the new hub/wheel. Make sure you have the right hub. It should go on without much resistance. 4) after the hub is on, then install the spacers or washers (I stacked a few washers) until you can secure it with the nut but don't torque it down all the way. The threads on the airbag shaft don't go deep enough which is why spacers/washers are required. 5) test horn function and wheel alignment. If the wheel is off center, remove the nut and clock the wheel in the correct position and then torque down the nut. 6) disconnect orange airbag sensor connector. 7) optional: since the wheel is closer to stalks you can either bend the stalks with a rag wrapped pliers or replace them with non airbag stalks if you feel like they are too close.

ANSWER 2 (id: 654_1):
Thanks, that part sounds pretty straight forward, do you just pull that little white peg out with pliers? Or do I need to snap it off flush with the hub? Any advice with the wiring for the horn? That’s honestly the part I’m dreading the most. Electrical is weakness.

ANSWER 3 (id: 654_2):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Here's my list: 7) optional: since the wheel is closer to stalks you can either bend the stalks with a rag wrapped pliers or replace them with non airbag stalks if you feel like they are too close. You can also find shorter earlier model stalks or get a steering wheel spacer to keep the wheel at OE position.

ANSWER 4 (id: 654_3):
Originally posted by aavani90 Thanks, that part sounds pretty straight forward, do you just pull that little white peg out with pliers? Or do I need to snap it off flush with the hub? Any advice with the wiring for the horn? That’s honestly the part I’m dreading the most. Electrical is weakness. The horn is straightforward as long as you install the hub correctly.

ANSWER 5 (id: 654_4):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Here's my list: 1) with the steering wheel locked, remove the 4 torx screws that secure the airbag, then remove the nut that secures the wheel. 2) unlock the column with the key, remove the wheel and remove the white plastic peg/spring (put this away for safekeeping) 3) with the column unlocked....remove any spacer on the column and install the new hub/wheel. Make sure you have the right hub. It should go on without much resistance. 4) after the hub is on, then install the spacers or washers (I stacked a few washers) until you can secure it with the nut but don't torque it down all the way. The threads on the airbag shaft don't go deep enough which is why spacers/washers are required. 5) test horn function and wheel alignment. If the wheel is off center, remove the nut and clock the wheel in the correct position and then torque down the nut. 6) disconnect orange airbag sensor connector. 7) optional: since the wheel is closer to stalks you can either bend the stalks with a rag wrapped pliers or replace them with non airbag stalks if you feel like they are too close. Are you sure I’m supposed to remove the stock airbag wheel spacer and have the hub be the first thing that goes on the column? That would make the new wheel really close to the stalks and make it so the nut gets to the bottom of the threads? I’m reading a lot of conflicting orders of how people are doing their stack with the spacers. sounds like most people are going: airbag spacer - hub- non airbag spacer- washer- lock nut. im in the middle of the install right now and dont know how to finish. I dont wanna torque it down and strip the column threads if the order is off.

ANSWER 6 (id: 654_5):
Read #3, #4 and #7. If you install the spacer first before the hub, you'll have a gap between the hub and column and the turn signal cancelation won't work, neither will the horn. You use thick washers/spacers stacked together after the hub until the nut can secure the wheel. The idea is to take up the space on the shaft so the nut can secure the hub. Understand? If you feel the wheel is too close you can do what I suggested in #7 or since you are using a momo wheel, add a spacer between the hub and the steering wheel itself...not the column.

ANSWER 7 (id: 654_6):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Read #3, #4 and #7. If you install the spacer first before the hub, you'll have a gap between the hub and column and the turn signal cancelation won't work, neither will the horn. You use thick washers/spacers stacked together after the hub until the nut can secure the wheel. The idea is to take up the space on the shaft so the nut can secure the hub. Understand? If you feel the wheel is too close you can do what I suggested in #7 or since you are using a momo wheel, add a spacer between the hub and the steering wheel itself...not the column. I read it and understood, I was just asking how certain you were about it because I was reading different opinions of using the spacer between the column and hub or not. I ended up doing: Airbag spacer- hub- non airbag spacer- washer-nut. With this setup, my horn works fine, the stocks are good distance and don’t need to be bent, I just haven’t tried if the turn signal indicator cancels or not.

ANSWER 8 (id: 654_7):
Admittedly, It's been almost 20 years since I did this but I'm pretty sure I removed that airbag spacer. Either way, you can try it out and see what works for you. I installed a 370mm M tech 2 wheel. I assumed a momo hub/wheel are the same height but they may be different.

ANSWER 9 (id: 654_8):
I think the Mtech 2 wheel sits closer to the steering column than a Momo mod 08 but not positive. If my turn signals don’t cancel I’ll probably go back and remove the airbag spacer and see if that fixes it. But I’m happy with the final result regardless. Special day, yesterday was the first start and drive of my car in a year. Fired right up.