QUESTION ID: 1257

QUESTION:
I'm replacing my 92's top per the (awesome) badcab instructions/bradnic assist with photos. (BTW...I turned those instructions into a PDF so I could have a binder out in the garage. If anyone wants it, I can share or post a link) I put on new tension straps. I measured very carefully against the old straps, stretching them out and laying flat to get accurate measurements. Still, when I put the first one on, I thought it was a little, maybe a lot, tight. I eased off on the second strap measurements by a smidge, maybe a centimeter plus. It seemed better. I thought they were tight because I had to do some persuasion (pushing) to get the alignment pins of the locks into the recesses on the windshield. Took a little pushing but seemed ok, and I though - maybe they'll loosen up over time. So I went ahead and started gluing in the top anyway. Center of rear rail, front rail and C-pillar corners glued in. And, it seems worse - nice tight top for sure when I push the front rail down to latch it! But with the top extended for latching, it doesn't just sit down onto the latch points waiting to be locked, as it did with old top (and on my daughter's 89 vert which I conveniently have next to it in the garage now). It sits up by about 2-3 inches and while I CAN get it closed, it...seems too tight. Is this normal? DO the straps/top loosen up? I still have access to the riveted ends of the tension straps in the rear rail - haven't glued over them yet - and I *think* I could drill out the rivets, put new holes in with a little more length/less tension, and all the work that entails on the crossbars. Thoughts anyone? Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1257_0):
Have you seen the bmw e30 convertible top videos on YouTube? https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=M0G6FsYeY5g https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=trHP1oI1R38 https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=uGguYKaGV6k you definitely should loosen the straps so that the force to close the front of the top is “reasonable”. That’s probably done before the canvas is glued in but there’s some room for adjustment. are you sure the top frame is straight, not binding? Shimmed properly? What about the top shocks? my other advice is to consider having an interior shop do the final tweaking.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1257_1):
Thanks...confirms what I thought. I still have access to the rivets at the rear end of the straps, it would not be too bad to drill out and re-rivet but longer. Getting to the screws on the crossbars would be a bit tricky towards the rear but could be done. Frame isn't binding. I worked on alignment a bit after I cleaned up all the old glue, but it was in good shape overall.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1257_2):
An update on my slo-mo project - I did in fact "loosen" the straps. With the front latched, the rear seal was in fact a little proud of the rear deck surface. So I drilled out the rivets holding the straps in place at rear, took out the tiny screws attaching the straps to each cross rail (PITA!), and added some length and re-riveted, re-screwed. Sits MUCH better now, got the front seal done and looking good, now just the C-pillar seals (not looking forward to getting that bottom rivet in...) and we're done.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1257_3):
I would like a copy of your pdf I just ordered new top and I am going to try to install myself. if you could email to me at bruric42@gmail.com Sent from my SM-G973U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 1257_5):
I am going to have my top replaced this spring and plan on replacing all of the gaskets. I am going to go all in and buy an OEM top since the original one has lasted 35 years. I am looking at all the options for tension straps and wonder if it worth the price to buy the OEM straps.