QUESTION ID: 3537

QUESTION:
After I was nearly done putting my front suspension all back together after correct some minor spring hat to shock mount rubbing, this happened. Nearly the last fucking nut too. You'd think the fucking shock would rotate. I can't have hit for more than 3 seconds either. I was about to stop when it suddenly went all smooth and I knew immediately what had happened. I fucking hate my car. Seriously. This IX has given more problems than all other 7 e30s I've had combined. Goddammit. Every time I work on it, 1 step forward, 1 step back. Or 1 step forward, 1 bank account emptied. Time to fucking shoot this car. Either that, or order a new bilstein HD shock. I haven't decided yet.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3537_0):
You know, my sister used to have an iX and for every job my 325i has happily accepted and appreciated, that damn thing would always fight me. My professional opinion is the iX is the most hateful breed of E30.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3537_1):
In my amateur experience, your professional opinion is dead fucking accurate. And they are even less fun to drive. No powerslides, no burnouts, less shock travel, and they're 150lbs heavier.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3537_10):
Damn that sucks...I get in one of those moods about once a year where I want to sell my ix, but then I fix and start driving it and realize there is no other car I would want.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3537_13):
Any decent machine shop could repair that and friction weld the threaded section back on.... but the cost of doing so would likely outweigh buying new. Bilstein will not warranty this BTW.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3537_2):
A shop did this to me years ago after I told them not to use the impact and I made them pay for it after some legal threats. They told me to never come back again, lol. :^(

ANSWER 6 (id: 3537_3):
An impact is the standard way to put on shock nuts. I can't even recall how many times I've done it over the last 12+ years of working on e30s. Never heard of anyone doing it any differently or having any problems. I googled for a torque spec after it snapped (and I calmed down) and everyone in every thread said, "just use an impact, bro."

ANSWER 7 (id: 3537_4):
You used too big of an impact. lol 3/8" impacts exist for a reason. And technically you are supposed to use a socket with a cutout to fit an allen (or regular) wrench into the end of the strut.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3537_5):
That's exactly it. I've used my 1/2" to install shock nuts and strut mounts dozens of times, but never again. 3/8" for install now only, except lug bolts.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3537_6):
While I'm not going to preach to you about not using an impact gun on that nut, which a number of damper boxes tell you right on them to NOT DO.... you've got to have some finesse when doing it. If you bury it like a tire monkey attacking a lug bolt it will break. I've seen people break a number of them this way from hitting it too long. I use an impact to get the nut seated, then do the final tightening once the weight of the car is holding it.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3537_7):
Originally posted by Kershaw An impact is the standard way to put on shock nuts. I can't even recall how many times I've done it over the last 12+ years of working on e30s. Never heard of anyone doing it any differently or having any problems. I googled for a torque spec after it snapped (and I calmed down) and everyone in every thread said, "just use an impact, bro." Agreed, everyone I know including myself uses a impact to tighten that nut.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3537_8):
not to use the impact ...except on the damned strut nuts, because how the hell else? I have a cheap crappy HF $14.95 version I use for just this sort of thing. It can MAYBE do 50 ft- lbs with 150 psi. If you rattle it for 5 minutes. t