QUESTION ID: 3268

QUESTION:
Id like to gauge interest: 1) Price would be very competitive 2) Top grade materials 3) Would offer perhaps 2 or 3 settings: IE: 1.00 degrees 2.00 degrees 3.00 degrees I ran fixed plates on my track toy for like 12 yrs....@ neg 3.2.....never an issue...install and forget about them Considering mild street to street driving track cars....to use w/ your oe strut bearings Just real simple, quality plates..... Wondering the interest?.... for say $115/pr?....or there abouts

ANSWER 1 (id: 3268_10):
Sounds like a great idea! You should check out Enthusio for the selling of it! Many of the people that sell parts on r3v now sell on Enthusio! http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=392919

ANSWER 2 (id: 3268_11):
Originally posted by flyboyx Even though they cost more, I always buy the oem 3 degree offset upper strut mounts. Since I don't race, I want the rubber insulation to filter out nvh. I didn't know about these. Thanks for the info!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3268_2):
I always got stuck on what to use for a shock bushing on top- the stock bushing absorbs loads in several directions, and I could never figure out how to duplicate that AND keep it small enough to make a real difference. t

ANSWER 4 (id: 3268_3):
There may be a good market at this price point, but they aren't for me personally. Even though they cost more, I always buy the oem 3 degree offset upper strut mounts. Since I don't race, I want the rubber insulation to filter out nvh. I would have a tendency to think that those that do race would want the adjustability of a plate already on the market.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3268_4):
IX???..... big market ...lol Toby and fly boy et al....: my experience w/ my basically track car was that I used oe upper strut bearings w/ my fixed plates. I ran hi level groups and car was amazing considering it was a mild set up w/ HR race rates. anyhew, these plates are for , or will be for mild street cars to dual duty track cars that want a fixed setting and want an oe upper mount.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3268_7):
The Turner motorsport fixed plates are 3/4 of a degree, so definitely more than that. If you're willing to make an IX set, I can send you a stripped out strut mount for the bolt pattern. The IX stud pattern is a lot larger, a lot. Like 50%.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3268_8):
Alpina did it on their E30 models and it looked like it was pretty much the same material as stock (rubber.) If you could do it, I'd be interested. On the race car, I sometimes play with it depending on the track and how many right or left turns there are, but on a street car, I wouldn't mind it being hard set.