QUESTION ID: 1125

QUESTION:
Ok a little about the story! For over 10 years i looked for an E30 M3! Now there were times where i could afford one and there were times i couldn't. A few months ago there were two i had my eyes on one with the "ALPINA" swap and the other in VA beach area. I checked out the one with the "ALPINA" swap but it was a little out of my goals (way too much work) the one in VA beach was perfect, a little work to get done but still looked nice in other words i could go get starbucks with it! I talked to the wife about it and she said "OK Nat you have to many toys" at the time i had a 05 Jeep Wrangler LJ lifted,winch,big tires........ it was cool, a 2000 RC51 (mean f*ckin bike), 95 M3 and her daily driver 2010 335D. So she said "you have to get rid of one in other to get you DREAM CAR so i chose the JEEP! here it is So i picked the one in VA beach! there were a few pics of the Craigslist add but i don't have them anymore. This is what it looked like when i picked it up! Brought it home and then it sits like this Now there are a few things that were part of the deal Kevin Chin custom interior + headliner. The PO gave me some upgrade parts and A NEEDING OF ROD BEARINGS (I was told it needed those) Anyways i bought it and paid a pretty dime + a nickle!!Anyways... THE TO DO LIST.... Install Headliner Install new seat upholstery Install shift linkage bushings Check Fuel system supply ( it will have trouble starting its fuel system related) Cooling system having an issue for the aux fan fuse (keeps blowing a fuse..cant remember the number of it) Shakes like a MOFO on the highway ( Need to put it up on a lift) Make sure all parts are there for the headliner install (i think i'm missing a few parts) Radio, cluster stopped working! (it was a fuse that it looked ok but it wasn't i bought and installed an SI board, installed new radio and all) OOOOHHH the ROD BEARINGS........ I had it checked for OIL PRESSURE..... ITS OK!!!!! (for now) That's it!!!!!!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1125_2):
Looks great! Pics of the interior and the custom interior you have to install? Be prepared for lots of unpleasant surprises along the way but in the end it is all worth it! Congrats on the pickup.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1125_4):
Thanks everyone for the kind words! It makes me feel a little better after what i just realized! Well for starters, the "TO DO LIST" just got a whole lot longer. Here it is... Motor mounts Trans mounts AC Compressor + mounting bushings + hoses Rear sway bar links Front lower control arm bushings (the ones in the rear) Front sway bar bushings Power steering rack (now i know why it shakes like a MOFO) Exhaust hanger (the one for the muffler) completely cut off side skirt clips almost all gone Shifter bushings.. i have some of those parts I think that's it. Also it does have some type of suspension but no name on it who can identify it?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1125_6):
While you're doing work in the rear Do what I did I replaced all the rubber in the rear Spring pads, sway bar links, sway bar bushings, and exhaust rubber mounts Cost Less than 150 and made a noticeable difference