QUESTION ID: 2907

QUESTION:
I just quoted out a few cars with Grundy online and they were half the price of Hagerty. I have a sour taste as they turned me down about 5 or 6 years ago not understanding how a late model M3 could be valuable. It was a pain because i had to take pictures and send in actual film. I don't know why they put me through the process if they weren't going to accept the policy. It wasn't because of anything they saw in the pictures. I am wondering if they are going to say the same thing when i send the paperwork in. Anyone here have them? Can you comment on a loss experience? Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2907_0):
I went through the process about 6 months ago and yes I am now paying about half for a 30k policy for my 88 m3 then with Hagerty. The paperwork process wasnt too bad. I had to send some forms in with questions about my driving record, personal info, a picture of the garage where the car is stored and a high res photo of the car. Within a few days I was insured. Luckily I have never had to go through a claim process with them but i'm interested to hear if anyone has.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2907_1):
nice, so far so good. was it just one picture? the cars are kind of sandwiched in for their winter rest. I can't get all sides without moving things around. Good to know on the garage pic. Were you able to email the pictures to them?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2907_10):
Originally posted by brads2002 Don't sweat it man. No one makes great decisions at age 22. Sounds like you made some smart car investments. They probably wouldnt have happened had you not been having fun driving. You are correct there. I don't regret the times at all!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2907_11):
Grundy wouldn't accept me because all the cars I own are from the 80's. Even though I have 2 other cars that I don't consider collector cars to drive daily they didn't care and said there to old to be reliable. So I have Hagerty and I guess it's better than no collector car insurance at all for the mean time.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2907_13):
Originally posted by 2mAn Neither Hagerty nor Grundy would insure my Datsun because I live in an apt complex with a shared garage.... pretty annoyed by it, but I did get a stated value policy from Farmers chubbs would insure you probably when i live in west la in a townhouse with a shared garage they covered my 2002

ANSWER 6 (id: 2907_2):
I sent them 1 pic about a month ago and a couple of days later they sent me a policy and an invoice for peanuts. Perhaps an M3 being more valuable gets more due diligence

ANSWER 7 (id: 2907_3):
I switched over from hagerty as well. I used to pay $550 annually and now $198 with Grundy for the same coverage, mileage, and 5k more in agreed upon value! It was a no brainer.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2907_5):
Thanks for the feedback, guys. Just bound 60K for $443 yearly, about half of Hagerty. Grundy was pretty clear about not driving the vehicle to work. I am not sure Hagerty's take on it but in my situation that's fine. Hopefully the claims process is easy if one ever comes up.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2907_6):
Originally posted by brads2002 Thanks for the feedback, guys. Just bound 60K for $443 yearly, about half of Hagerty. Grundy was pretty clear about not driving the vehicle to work. I am not sure Hagerty's take on it but in my situation that's fine. Hopefully the claims process is easy if one ever comes up. You can always drive the car to work if you're getting emissions testing, having tires installed, having a mechanic look at it, etc. I have a number of those things come up every year.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2907_7):
Neither Hagerty nor Grundy would insure my Datsun because I live in an apt complex with a shared garage.... pretty annoyed by it, but I did get a stated value policy from Farmers

ANSWER 11 (id: 2907_8):
I will be looking into Grundy in April (I'll be 25) for my E28 M5, (soon to be) Z3MC and the M-Tech cabrio (the only cars that have covered storage at the moment). Hopefully they will be willing to work with my less than stellar driving record, though it has been almost three years since I received a citation, but their website says they go back five years... Wish I would have thought about my future when I went and racked up a shit ton of tickets in a year's time... :/

ANSWER 12 (id: 2907_9):
Originally posted by agent You can always drive the car to work if you're getting emissions testing, having tires installed, having a mechanic look at it, etc. I have a number of those things come up every year. Yes....very good point. Originally posted by Austin! I will be looking into Grundy in April (I'll be 25) for my E28 M5, (soon to be) Z3MC and the M-Tech cabrio (the only cars that have covered storage at the moment). Hopefully they will be willing to work with my less than stellar driving record, though it has been almost three years since I received a citation, but their website says they go back five years... Wish I would have thought about my future when I went and racked up a shit ton of tickets in a year's time... :/ Don't sweat it man. No one makes great decisions at age 22. Sounds like you made some smart car investments. They probably wouldnt have happened had you not been having fun driving.