QUESTION ID: 254

QUESTION:
any tips? i have a tear in one of my boots and i picked up the complete setup online for wicked cheap, anything I should know/do before i tackle this?

ANSWER 1 (id: 254_0):
Nothing special, some use torx bolts, some use allen. Make sure you tighten them to the correct torque when reinstalling (Pretty tight), and use Blue Loctite because they can and do come loose. I have two buddies who replaced them with the "I don't need loctite" method, both came loose again. Just my .02 I did them in my E30 M3 about 4 years ago. On that you need to loosen the large hub nut before jacking up the car, then jack it up and remove the wheel, caliper, and rotor. Next you use a 3 jaw puller to press the axle end out of the hub. If yours has bolts on both sides, ala 2002s, then your swap will be much easier. The two big tips: 1) When you can't get to all the bolts, take the car out of gear and sping the axle by hand, then put it back in gear so you can get to the other bolts. Youll probably have to do this twice. 2) Use Blue Loctite when re-installing.

ANSWER 2 (id: 254_2):
i changed mine after the car had 200k on it and the axles were siezed in there. i used penitrating oil, a 20 lb sledge and multiple hours of hammer time.. didnt budge. i ended up going to home depot and renting a HILTI electric jack hammer. problem solved.

ANSWER 3 (id: 254_3):
Originally posted by alane i changed mine after the car had 200k on it and the axles were siezed in there. i used penitrating oil, a 20 lb sledge and multiple hours of hammer time.. didnt budge. i ended up going to home depot and renting a HILTI electric jack hammer. problem solved. How did your wheel bearings fare after such treatment? How long has it been since the change? My car still has a "thrumming" in the ass end. I think my axle's CV joints took a dump.

ANSWER 4 (id: 254_4):
just got mine done and the bearings the only issue was a stock axle nut. had to be chissel out got remaufacture axles from Oreillys for 69$. Perfect fit no issues at all. You reuse the cover on the diff end of the CV axle.

ANSWER 5 (id: 254_5):
Originally posted by rcko just got mine done and the bearings the only issue was a stock axle nut. had to be chissel out got remaufacture axles from Oreillys for 69$. Perfect fit no issues at all. You reuse the cover on the diff end of the CV axle. Have you driven with them at 80+ mph? I need to rebuild or replace my axles and I see a lot of complaints online about speed wobble with non-OEM replacements.

ANSWER 6 (id: 254_6):
I have never known anything about wobble, but the aftermarket axles are pure junk. I rebuild the stockers and have taken apart an aftermarket to compare. I put the inner race of an OEM CV on an aftermarket axle, and the thickness of the OE race was so wide when it bottomed out, that it not only completely covered the snap ring groove, and even hung off the end of the splines a little. This means the aftermarket junk CV's are about 4mm thinner than stock - but - that's not even the part I have seen fail! The cages snap like toothpicks. Local here used a set of them and he broke both in one weekend in his 318is vert (4.27 LSD) at an Auto-X. I still have the aftermarket axle sitting on a bench, need to take some pics....