QUESTION ID: 2700

QUESTION:
Since getting my '88 vert as a summer/project car, my wife decided she wants a summer car, too, Cool, I thought, she can have the vert since it's an auto and I'll find a hardtop 5-speed. But no, she doesn't like the way e30s look...sad. She wants an Audi TT. I'd really rather get her a Z3, but she'd dead set on the TT. Does anyone hear have any experience with the TT? My impression is they are less reliable and harder to work on than a Bimmer. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2700_0):
The answer to your question depends on the year and powertrain selection of the cars in question. Once we can determine that, we can help you make an educated decision.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2700_1):
I cant help you any, but I appreciate the topic. The only car that would really tempt me to not daily my ‘89 would be the first z3 they made with the 6 cylinder engine. I think they look nice and I would love the power of the 2.8L.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2700_11):
Originally posted by ryan.of.peachey I get that's it's a car for her and not me, but I'll be the one repairing it and I like the piece of mind of working on something at least somewhat familiar. Why is it even up for debate? Momma needs to be happy. It'll be fun working on a different marque. Go outside your comfort zone and grow a little.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2700_12):
Originally posted by uturn Why is it even up for debate? Momma needs to be happy. It'll be fun working on a different marque. Go outside your comfort zone and grow a little. Yeah, it would be fun I suppose. Sent from my SM-G960U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 2700_13):
Originally posted by uturn Why is it even up for debate? Momma needs to be happy. It'll be fun working on a different marque. Go outside your comfort zone and grow a little. Lol... I had been thinking the same thing.... happy wife, happy life.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2700_2):
Thanks, guys. I guess I'm looking for a general answer from anyone who has experience with either or both cars, whichever model it may be. My wife can't drive a stick, so it would be an automatic, ideally a six cylinder model. I'm partial to the later model Z3s myself, something in the 1999-2002 facelift era of cars.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2700_3):
Sarah N tuned on youtube is doing an audi TT. She works out of a 2 car garage in arizona. Check it out. When she bought the car it was beat to death, and its a lot nicer now.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2700_4):
They still are lacking a bit in the looks to me. It's a design that hasn't aged well. What about the TT interest her? Because if you wanna stick with Audi, you could find a newer A3 and those are plenty sporty and can actually haul stuff. While the turbo lag on my wife's A3 iritates the hell out of me, it is a capable car and we've driven it a few times to LA and everywhere else in between. The TT just always seemed like it targeted a market that didn't really exist. I don't know anyone that has kept one for very long. Plus, the MK1 still just looks like a fancy beetle.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2700_5):
I like the looks of the TT and interior but honestly engine wise the Z3 will be way more reliable, smoother and easier to work on. Those older turbo Audi's get pretty bad carbon build up and they are a pain to work on. Get the 3.0 inline Z3 and its a smooth operator.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2700_6):
I'm very basis but the Z3 is a great car. I love everything about it and I think the face lift model has aged extremely well, both interior and exterior.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2700_7):
I don't know much about TT's, but a friend's GF had one and it was a POS. Always had something expensive wrong with it. A lot of electrical problems. I don't know what year it was. Check out the 3.0 Z3 and Z4. Z3 is a little cuter, but Z4s are great too and had some improvements.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2700_8):
My wife likes the TT PURELY based on looks, it's all aesthetic for her. I prefer the Z3 because: 1- I'm a Bimmer fan; 2- I know something about working on a BMW inline-six and I've never touched an Audi with a wrench; 3- I believe the Z3 is more reliable than the TT. I get that's it's a car for her and not me, but I'll be the one repairing it and I like the piece of mind of working on something at least somewhat familiar. Sent from my SM-G960U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 13 (id: 2700_9):
What year are we talking? I would like a Z3, but I wouldn't mind a TT either. If you are taking new, the TT RS is an absolute monster with the turbo i5.