QUESTION ID: 3482

QUESTION:
For those of you who may want to refresh your emblems lets take a look at some signs of a fakie. Everyone knows you can get cheap imitations on eBay for 12 bucks. This one I paid $30 bucks for and well.... shits fake as ever. right = legit left = nah 1. Raised letters from the surface (you can run your finger over the emblem and feel the letters) 2. Chrome lines around the blue and white are thinner and raised. 3. Casting flaws in the plastic that are easily noticeable. No real discussion needed. Just so u guys can see. Just because you pay 30 bones doesn't mean its real i guess

ANSWER 1 (id: 3482_1):
So, markedly raised silver sections=fake. Good to know. You should point out that the inner corners of the roundel are all rounded on the fake, and sharp on the real one.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3482_11):
Yeah, I honestly wouldn't care if my current ones broke and I bought replicas. It wouldn't be the most noticeable on my car since it's a 6 footer anyway. Maybe if my ix was mint I would care more to keep everything 100%.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3482_12):
I bought OEM ones from blunt not too long ago and they have embossed (raised) letters. The cheap ones I got off eBay before were flat with a thick epoxy coating over the printed on roundel. 3 out of 4 that I bought, the paint was scratched from the back side of the emblem under the epoxy. Your "fake"one looks exactly like my OEM ones and look better IMO.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3482_3):
I've been told that the new OEM design has no raised letters but that the original roundels from the 80s and before were indeed raised. I have seen one on a local e30 collectors car and was told the same thing. Sent from the woods of Maine.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3482_6):
Are u comparing a front emblem with a rear? Original emblems were raised enamel, then changed over the years, then changed again to raised plastic/aluminum. I posted a thread about it last year. Now they are copying the raised black backed emblems so it's harder to spot the fake.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3482_7):
...there is a difference now on even authentic BMW roundels. They went cheap on the new ones as well. :( I have purchased new ones from BMW and they are not the same either so if you find OEM ones in good shape, save them like gold! I know, I know - now the market will be flooded with people asking sky high prices for O.E. style roundels.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3482_8):
Last time I bought them for my E30, they still sold the metal ones.. no more :| that really sucks though, hopefully the BMW ones aren't as terrible as the fake ones. I ended up with a box of the fake ones (got them real cheap). Don't feel bad at all about putting them on the E90, but not on the E30..