QUESTION ID: 1951

QUESTION:
Has anyone on here purchased a es cow catcher front valance from DTM fiberwerks or anywhere similar and how it the quality and are there any mounting or is it make your own holes etc.?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1951_0):
Originally posted by D3R3K Has anyone on here purchased a es cow catcher front valance from DTM fiberwerks or anywhere similar and how it the quality and are there any mounting or is it make your own holes etc.? There were numerous horror stories about DTM Fiberwerkz on here and bimmerforums about 10-12 years ago. Not sure how they are now, but they seem sketchy as a brand to me. A lot of the aftermarket ES airdams (“cowcatchers”) are made of fiberglass (a material prone to cracking) and a lot of them will need additional bodywork to mount correctly and look right. Best thing to do is to find a good OEM ES airdam and fit that to your car. And since you’re into 3D printing, you should try to see if it’s possible to 3D scan a good OEM one and print replicas that match the OEM quality. 3D printed replicas of the ES airdam would sell like hotcakes

ANSWER 2 (id: 1951_1):
Originally posted by ZeKahr There were numerous horror stories about DTM Fiberwerkz on here and bimmerforums about 10-12 years ago. Not sure how they are now, but they seem sketchy as a brand to me. A lot of the aftermarket ES airdams (“cowcatchers”) are made of fiberglass (a material prone to cracking) and a lot of them will need additional bodywork to mount correctly and look right. Best thing to do is to find a good OEM ES airdam and fit that to your car. And since you’re into 3D printing, you should try to see if it’s possible to 3D scan a good OEM one and print replicas that match the OEM quality. 3D printed replicas of the ES airdam would sell like hotcakes I’ve been looking for a OEM one for a while haven’t had one come up close and the ones that are are usually destroyed, I diffintely am going to find the air dams and try to reproduce them. And thanks for the info about DTM

ANSWER 3 (id: 1951_3):
Idk what a fair price is but I can’t find any close to MD most are across the country and from what everyone else tells me they are brittle and I’m worried it will get destroyed in shipping

ANSWER 4 (id: 1951_4):
The OEM ones are pretty flexible and should survive shipping no problem, as long as UPS doesn't drive a truck over it. If they do crack they can be plastic welded/melted back together even with a simple soldering iron. About 7 years ago I used to make a custom box and ship them frequently. I'll see what shipping rates are nowadays and see if it's reasonable. Feel free to message me by PM or I'll send you a PM when I get a For Sale ad up. You can check my post history or look me up in the seller feedback thread