QUESTION ID: 1434

QUESTION:
Hello iX friends, I have been around here sporadically for a number of years and, for better or worse, it is nearing time for me and the iX to part ways along with all the parts I have acquired. Will absolutely post officially in 'For Sale' Thread, detailed pictures and prices available at that time, will keep this corner of the forum in the loop on when that happens. This one is so you can get your financing in line and poke that hole in your wallet! .. :up: Here is a parts preview rundown (my actual car will follow): PARTS: iX parts car: 170,000 mile 1990 auto-slush box coupe - clean NYS title... NO VC (sold) All things here are AS IS: Car came from an active forum member originally - iX axles - appear in solid condition, no wobble - iX front strut mounts - solid condition - clean rear windshield - original - late style plastic bumpers, black - 1 crack in rear trim only... - front and rear 3.91 diffs - iX front drive shaft - splines good looking PM me if you seriously want any of this with no other info (hahah yeah, right) and I will do all I can to get what you need. Location: Syracuse, NY cheers - tk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1434_2):
Hi thanks for your interest. Engine pics will go up today, I did not get inside the valve cover but that is easy and I will do it as soon as I am able. My schedule is off the chain right now, attempting to manage it all without losing my sh*t... I do have control arms. Didn't get photos of everything. My weekend plans went awry, see above... What I've got ready thus far coming to a For Sale thread near you... tonight :drink: Thanks for your patience tk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1434_3):
An image of the parts car from November for those skeptics out there :pimp: (PO primed it... it was a well intentioned start to a respray some time ago?) original color believed to be black. Clearly it can be seen that the doors are red from another car at the side mirror mounts

ANSWER 3 (id: 1434_4):
FS Thread posted, I will be conducting all remaining transactions over here: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=431492 Thanks for your interest tk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1434_5):
Originally posted by tk32 An image of the parts car from November for those skeptics out there :pimp: (PO primed it... it was a well intentioned start to a respray some time ago?) original color believed to be black. Clearly it can be seen that the doors are red from another car at the side mirror mounts Hey, that's my old car! I painted that with a roller! Yes, the guy I got it from put those doors on. Engine does run and is strong. I drove it around the yard and on a trail at my old house.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1434_6):
Originally posted by barbierij Hey, that's my old car! I painted that with a roller! Yes, the guy I got it from put those doors on. Engine does run and is strong. I drove it around the yard and on a trail at my old house. Thanks barbierij! Engine SOLD. A weird thing occurred: I assumed 4.10 as it was certainly an auto trans car, and that is what I have read about. When I finally got to yanking the front diff off the engine the tag reads 3.91?? Unfortunately the rear is essentially unreadable due to surface rust on the tag... who the F thought the tag was a good idea? Come on BMW Any thoughts from the iX expert crew?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1434_7):
You can easily tell if it's a 3.91 or a 4.10. Mark output shaft. Turn the input shaft 4 times. Did it go more or less than 4? If it's slightly less, 3.91, slightly more 4.10. I got the engine installed. Had to do it on jack stands with a engine hoist because the vanagon is still sitting on the lift. :( The engine starts up really nicely. Idles high and revs a little rough when warm though. Almost like it's missing, I think the valves need to be adjusted. I will get to that this week. Or maybe a vacuum leak.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1434_8):
mega bump from the dead on this for my iX friends, sold my '88 to a great enthusiastic owner, parts taking up way too much space https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-classified-forums/for-sale-wanted/parts-for-sale/388538-fs-ix-specific-parts