QUESTION ID: 3269

QUESTION:
I've noticed a number of otherwise impressive car builds that have featured wooden steering wheels and more perplexingly, faux wood grain metal parts. What's up with that?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3269_0):
What is wrong with wooden steering wheels? I have a wooden momo in my mtech 2 right now and I love it. Previously I had a nardi classic wood line. Loved that one too. I can't imagine what you mean by faux wood grain metal parts, but I can only assume you are talking about the alpina interior sticker set or similiar. Not my cup of tea either, but it was probably pretty cool in the 80's.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3269_10):
IMO wood belongs on cars from the 70s and older. On anything newer it looks out of place. Especially wood steering wheels. That said, I have a vintage wood shift knob in my E30, so i'm contradicting myself here!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3269_12):
Originally posted by Cakey I've noticed a number of otherwise impressive car builds that have featured Wind Splits and tinted head lights and more perplexingly,shark fins. What's up with that? Sounds epic, nay, mythical. The only thing cooler would be Sasquatch wrestling a gorilla. Tell me, my cake-like friend, can you prove the existence of such an incredible build? A link, perhaps? ;D

ANSWER 4 (id: 3269_3):
Originally posted by iXguido I think op might be referring to stuff like this. *Picture of wood-grained valve cover* You are correct. I have also seen this treatment in an otherwise beautiful Porsche RSR clone:

ANSWER 5 (id: 3269_4):
I wonder if it's an extension of the whole lumberjack thing you kids like. I'd like to see if there's a correlation between guys with the lumberjack look, and presence of wood steering wheel or other wood grain object (not factory trim) in/on the car. Maybe start a poll?...

ANSWER 6 (id: 3269_5):
Originally posted by Nader393 I wonder if it's an extension of the whole lumberjack thing you kids like. I'd like to see if there's a correlation between guys with the lumberjack look, and presence of wood steering wheel or other wood grain object (not factory trim) in/on the car. Maybe start a poll?... My wife likes "wood". I don't have a beard. More like what is the correlation of guys with big beards to no beards that hold the position of brewmaster at a craft brewery.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3269_8):
Originally posted by Nader393 I wonder if it's an extension of the whole lumberjack thing you kids like. I'd like to see if there's a correlation between guys with the lumberjack look, and presence of wood steering wheel or other wood grain object (not factory trim) in/on them. Maybe start a poll?... Better poll

ANSWER 8 (id: 3269_9):
I've noticed a number of otherwise impressive car builds that have featured Wind Splits and tinted head lights and more perplexingly,shark fins. What's up with that?