QUESTION ID: 2969

QUESTION:
So for the third time this year, I decided I was going to buy a car sight unseen. The first one, a Datsun 280z, turned out pretty good. The second one, a 318is, turned out to be the $2600 car I bought it for. I found an '89 325i with a metric mechanic 3200 rally engine with other good parts (20k in receipts) for a good price. The owner was going through some life-things and was bad at communication. He ends up selling to local guy after him and I talk for weeks. Well, I get text a week ago saying the guy sold it back to him saying it was too much car for his son. Cool, I'll buy it next weekend. Then I was like, sight unseen is such roller coaster, let's get a PPI. The guys at Markert Motor Works (shoutout to Jordon and all rest of the crew for being super awesome) performed a PPI today and identified a bunch of stuff that I would have missed even in person. Nothing major, but a bunch of small stuff the car needed. I thought the car was a screaming deal (like I was already thinking how much it could get on BaT after I had my fun) but now it's a decent one. Y'all can check the PPI for yourselves attached. I think it is money well spent.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2969_2):
Looks a pretty thorough inspection! Gives a bit of confidence buying sight unseen for sure - doesn't look like any deal breakers there... just some routine maintenance really.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2969_3):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Looks a pretty thorough inspection! Gives a bit of confidence buying sight unseen for sure - doesn't look like any deal breakers there... just some routine maintenance really. This. When buying a used car the 2x rule applies.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2969_7):
Originally posted by Echo30V That’s a nice inspection. What about a compression/leak down test? Yeah, so I forgot to mention an important detail: the timing belt actually snapped on this car. Metric mechanic, however, pockets their valves so there is no interference with the pistons and use stronger rocker arms. The head was pulled after the belt snapped and apparently their was no damage. That's what is making me hesitant. A leak down test would be a good idea but it'll cost $150-250 and I'm kinda over it by now.