QUESTION ID: 3292

QUESTION:
Pardon Our Interruption... https://www.ebay.com/itm/162183186516 Full credit, it's accurately documented, but...

ANSWER 1 (id: 3292_12):
Originally posted by dsphil These two pictures has discrepancy. The rust hole below the tail. Wonder whats going on. The 2nd one was photoshopped. Maybe he wasn't going to disclose it and then changed his mind. <edit> I see now that it is red tape. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 2 (id: 3292_13):
Looks like a bit of time with the healing brush is what it looks like. :p Edit: Looking at the pictures again, it's pretty clear that the pictures have been heavily touched up, except for the detailed rust shots. That interior, though....

ANSWER 3 (id: 3292_3):
Remember guys rust is at minimum 30% larger then what you cam see. That being said the placement of those spots are in a way that it spread to multiple panels. That car is shot.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3292_5):
i wouldn't go so far as to say its rusted to shit but...yeah.... that car is indicative of a car that has spent many years in the salt air and is rusting from the inside out. it really is going to need a body shell swap. its at 5k with 6 days left. jesus! as nice as it looks, i wouldn't pay 3k for that one because to me, it would be a parts car.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3292_6):
That car looks like it was sitting outside for years and someone bought it and polished it up. The hood paint looks like its oxidized and just polished/waxed.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3292_8):
dammmmmnnnn.. that rust hole in the back tailgate panel would be enough to make me think the whole thing is swiss cheese. And I just replaced all the rear panels on an e30 earlier this year - so I know how much of a PITA in can be. I also parted out a salt filled, rusty hulk from Utah that wasn't as eaten by corrosion as that.. All that being said, there is easily 5K in parts that could be sold off it. But it's already outside profit price and is just upside down now.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3292_9):
Originally posted by flyboyx i wouldn't go so far as to say its rusted to shit but...yeah.... that car is indicative of a car that has spent many years in the salt air and is rusting from the inside out. it really is going to need a body shell swap. its at 5k with 6 days left. jesus! as nice as it looks, i wouldn't pay 3k for that one because to me, it would be a parts car. It really does look like it rusted from the inside out, especially when looking at the rust on the trunk/tail light area, and the cowl. You could repair it, but E30s are still relatively easy to find, so I doubt anyone would bother to really do it right, ie, stripped shell, going over it with a fine toothed comb. I personally wouldn't touch it. I really cringe any time I see a nice classic car at the shore. Actually, one of my neighbors had two nice looking 67-69 Camaros that he kept outside, or under a car cover. I wouldn't touch those either. There's also another guy with a 60s Chevy truck. He keeps it outside. When I first saw it several years ago, it looked pretty nice. These days, the paint is bubbling, the wheels are oxidized, and the wood in the bed is fucked. It just sits now. Really sad to see.