QUESTION ID: 2205

QUESTION:
So I'm sure if you live near a track everyone has one that they like. But what about the backroads. Where, at least in my opinion, the E30 shines. I live about 45 min to an hour away from the mountains. Those tight twisties are my favorite to run. And at the top there is a beautiful view. High RPM and mainly 2nd and 3rd gear. Leading up to the mountain there are a few straights to row through the gears and open her legs up. So what is everyone's spot? Does it lead to a view? Maybe it leads to a meet. Or maybe it leads you to your happy place. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2205_0):
once upon a time I built an app that allowed people to find fun roads to ride or drive... It's absolutely not perfect but it has data for everywhere in the US. PositiveYaw https://app.positiveyaw.com PositiveYaw helps you find the best roads. Using elevation and GPS data, +yaw finds the best roads so you don't have to waste gas or time. Maybe it'll help you find your next fun road.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2205_1):
Originally posted by Jaxx_ once upon a time I built an app that allowed people to find fun roads to ride or drive... It's absolutely not perfect but it has data for everywhere in the US. PositiveYaw https://app.positiveyaw.com PositiveYaw helps you find the best roads. Using elevation and GPS data, +yaw finds the best roads so you don't have to waste gas or time. Maybe it'll help you find your next fun road. This is awesome thank you

ANSWER 3 (id: 2205_2):
Playalinda Beach in Central Florida has a short, but sweet drive to the beaches. Cool views of the Indian River coming from Titusville and a bunch of nice coastal bird habitats on the way. Plenty of places to pull over for a little photo shoot and to take in the scenery. The beach itself is very sparsely populated and only has some dirty bathrooms for service. Also a great place to check out some SpaceX launches if you're into that. Took a few trips here in my 2er but not my E30 though... Attached Files

ANSWER 4 (id: 2205_3):
Originally posted by ube91 Playalinda Beach in Central Florida has a short, but sweet drive to the beaches. Cool views of the Indian River coming from Titusville and a bunch of nice coastal bird habitats on the way. Plenty of places to pull over for a little photo shoot and to take in the scenery. The beach itself is very sparsely populated and only has some dirty bathrooms for service. Also a great place to check out some SpaceX launches if you're into that. Took a few trips here in my 2er but not my E30 though... Nice. I miss living on the coast.