QUESTION ID: 2008

QUESTION:
I am looking for a decent brand of tire that fits the factory 14” bottle caps. I don’t care if the tires are exactly factory size, just want something decent, but not looking to spend a lot as this car is not driven hard at the moment. Eventually looking to get 15” wheels, but need to get the car back on the road and back in decent shape first.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2008_10):
Fuckking altismacks. I have them on the E46 commuter. They stick well, they stick well in the wet, they stick well at the track. When they let go, they let go in a very predictable, linear way. They are what you might wish for in a reasonably- priced tire. But. They are not round. I have the lumpiest ones in back, and the least lumpy in the front. Now, I THOUGHT I was getting the Michelaaaan 'made in Frants' version, but when they showed up, turns out they were the GoodBeer 'Made in USA' version. I was ok with that. Right up until they weren't round. The only other not-round tires I've gotten came from Indonesia, and I chalked that up to a lesion I should have not needed to learn. t no more RT43 here, thank you very lump.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2008_11):
I use Toyo allseasons right now as I only have the one set of wheels currently, but I'm hoping to get 15" euroweaves at some point, after which my 14" weaves will be relegated to proper winter tire duty once the allseasons wear out, with summers on the 15"s. They're Toyo Eclipses, the mfg's code for them in E30 14" fitment is 160100. They are P195/65R14 88T. They do the job just fine for dailying, which is what I use my E30 for. I got them from Tires-Easy and had them shipped directly to my mechanic of choice when I was having other work performed on the car that was beyond my paygrade. https://www.tires-easy.com/195-65-14...irecode/160100 While I wouldn't necessarily recommend this as a hard use tire per se, for a regular street application this should do fine in most non-snow circumstances. On colder rainy days I've noticed I have to mind my throttle input when starting from stoplights on steep hills to avoid spin, (I live in an area with elevation changes that are pretty strong and it rains a lot and it can get a bit chilly), but other than that I've got no real complaints during the year I've had them on the car thus far.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2008_12):
Jesus shit, do NOT buy the Eclipse. It killed the E36 hatch- fuckers have NO, I mean really NO wet grip whatsofucking ever. I have sworn of Schwab for selling me such an incredible piece- of- shit tire. I mean, worse than 10 year old bias- ply 1974 truck tires. The 318ti has an E30 suspension design, so yep, it's apples- to- rotten- apples comparison. t your psa for the day

ANSWER 4 (id: 2008_13):
I recently bought Toyo Tires. I was concerned about these unknown brands, but I have no specific reasons behind it. It took me a while to find a retailer that carries them and ended up buying online. Let me know if you need more details and I can search for the invoice.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2008_2):
Originally posted by Zaffer How do you like them? I've heard good things about Vredestein, but don't have any personal experience with them. I like them; they look nice and drive fine. I don't drive hard anyway. There are slim pickings as far as 14" tires go these days. The Vredesteins look period correct and aren't expensive.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2008_3):
Agree very slim pickings for 14" rubber. I'm based in Australia so YMMV... But found the Falken ZIEX ZE914 to be a great option for my vert on stock rims. Had a set of Kumho Ecsta and the Falkens are much better in grip & noise. Wear is not a consideration as the car is only driven on Friday's & weekends.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2008_4):
Nothing is wrong about Nankangs for $50. SP-9 Cross-Sport • Nankang Tires https://www.nankangusa.com/passenger-tires/sp-9-cross-sport/ The evolution of today’s sophisticated Crossovers and SUV’s led to the creation of the SP-9 CROSS-SPORT. It features a touring tread pattern that reduces... If you want a factory tire, then check the Michelin MXV3. Classic https://classic.michelin.com/en/Classic-Tyre-range/MXV3-A Découvrez MICHELIN Classic : des pneus au style vintage conçus pour les voitures de collection. Profitez de la combinaison parfaite entre performances et sécurité actuelle avec le look vintage authentique que votre véhicule de collection mérite. Faites confiance à MICHELIN, la fiabilité et le style intemporel.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2008_6):
Originally posted by TobyB I keep failing to hate Falken. I want to. I have hated almost everything else that was in their price bracket. I know... When the local tire shop (attached to an indy BMW workshop) offered them to me - I screwed up my nose. But when you are limited for choices I was pleasantly surprised.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2008_8):
Originally posted by evoleacy What specific tire size are you planning to buy? Let me guess, you have a suggested place to buy some tires? the ones you use on your 1990 BMW 3-series 325i?

ANSWER 10 (id: 2008_9):
I've been getting the General Altimax RT43 in 195/60-14 for my daily. It's got decent wet/dry traction and decent ride quality. For $81 a tire, I've been very happy.