QUESTION ID: 2388

QUESTION:
I used to check out threads on r3v all of the time, back when I had my red 89 coupe, and even still when I transplanted all of its guts into my silver 90 sedan, and subsequently swapped an s50 into it(2012-ish?). I was almost at the point of getting away from e30s after the sedan got so rusty but I got re-inspired when i found a clean coupe from Texas.. I finally got going on that project and posted a bunch of pics in the project section... and it seems like there’s only a couple of people that viewed, let alone commented on the thread. Is there anybody on this page anymore? Most of my other forum discussions have moved onto Facebook, but I haven’t seen anything like r3vlimited on FB. Anyway... here’s a link to my build Re-body project for my 24V e30 https://r.tapatalk.com/shareLink/top...ink_source=app Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 2388_1):
Originally posted by roguetoaster No, new for 2021 it's just a forum for trucks. Haha but really yeah it seems like most online conversation has moved into Facebook... or is it just me? Are there any good e30 community groups on Fb? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 2388_10):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK Still check in every day, but there's not much happening unfortunately If someone would finish their swap we would have something cool to see!...

ANSWER 3 (id: 2388_11):
Well people still make new threads on here so yeah there’s traffic. My guess is R3v was much more active back around 2008-mid 2010s when the E30 was in its heyday as an enthusiast car and online forums were still popular The E30 subreddit is pretty active. The E30 classifieds on FB is active. It’s just what the Millennials and Zoomers who are into these cars use

ANSWER 4 (id: 2388_12):
I still check it out daily and appreciate the people that still post. Not really into the Facebook page, if it wasn't for the Buy/Sell I wouldn't even be on there.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2388_13):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Some of us still prefer words and images to video. Very off topic, but I cannot stand the changeover to every yahoo doing a video DIY that I just do not want to watch instead of writing it up. Different strokes I suppose. I wish Jordan made detailed videos of his restorations. They would attract millions of views.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2388_4):
Originally posted by Vincenze Times have changed. Pictures are not enough. Film a high-quality video and narrate it to attract comments. Some of us still prefer words and images to video. Very off topic, but I cannot stand the changeover to every yahoo doing a video DIY that I just do not want to watch instead of writing it up. Different strokes I suppose.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2388_5):
Especially if you can read fast - listing to some bro crap on about how they're doing something that's actually pretty straight forward for 10 mins, and then getting it wrong or spreading misinformation is pretty mind numbing. Give me pelican's photographic step by step guides (or the good write-ups done here) any day.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2388_7):
I still spend too much time on this site, and heavily prefer a proper build thread over a YouTube video of someone vlogging their build, which seems to be the trend. With so few folks left, though, the fun in writing engaging content in my own build thread has largely dwindled. mjweimer and Matt@EDC need to get their rears in gear with build thread updates- their work is fantastic and highly detailed.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2388_8):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Especially if you can read fast - listing to some bro crap on about how they're doing something that's actually pretty straight forward for 10 mins, and then getting it wrong or spreading misinformation is pretty mind numbing. Give me pelican's photographic step by step guides (or the good write-ups done here) any day. +1,000,000