QUESTION ID: 3154

QUESTION:
Hey guys, I'm a junior in high school and I've been addicted to e30s for about 4 years now, and have been religiously saving for one for the same amount of time. I'll will be picking one up in the next couple months, so I am curious to see how many other high schoolers are on here, what your car looks like, advice, etc. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3154_0):
I was just out of high school and working at a Sonic Drive-In when I got my first E30 a few years ago. Then, I got the wild hair up my ass to go to college and some asshole rear-ended me on their phone, so I think I'm close enough. You won't find many high-schoolers on here, though lol. Most of them don't even know what a forum is. It's all about Instagram now. I mean, from what I remember from high school, every kid was jizzing over the 240sx and BRZs/FRSs. Most of the hipster kids got them because they were an alternative to the Volvo 240GL, but every teenager who wanted a BMW grabbed the cheapest E46/E9x they could find...or their parents bought them what they wanted. Biggest piece of advice I could give you though, is never settle for the first one to catch your eye. That was my mistake when I had my glacier blue vert. Thing was a heap when I got it, and a heap when I fixed it. Do your research. Look for rust. Familiarize yourself with the engine via Bentley manual or through the forums. Listen for any disconcerting noises. Most importantly, have at least $1000 for preventative maintenance, and more if you can't do it yourself. Thankfully, E30s are pretty easy to work on. A 10mm socket/ratcheting wrench is gonna be your best friend. Also, torx bits.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3154_1):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec I was just out of high school and working at a Sonic Drive-In when I got my first E30 a few years ago. Then, I got the wild hair up my ass to go to college and some asshole rear-ended me on their phone, so I think I'm close enough. You won't find many high-schoolers on here, though lol. Most of them don't even know what a forum is. It's all about Instagram now. I mean, from what I remember from high school, every kid was jizzing over the 240sx and BRZs/FRSs. Most of the hipster kids got them because they were an alternative to the Volvo 240GL, but every teenager who wanted a BMW grabbed the cheapest E46/E9x they could find...or their parents bought them what they wanted. Biggest piece of advice I could give you though, is never settle for the first one to catch your eye. That was my mistake when I had my glacier blue vert. Thing was a heap when I got it, and a heap when I fixed it. Do your research. Look for rust. Familiarize yourself with the engine via Bentley manual or through the forums. Listen for any disconcerting noises. Most importantly, have at least $1000 for preventative maintenance, and more if you can't do it yourself. Thankfully, E30s are pretty easy to work on. A 10mm socket/ratcheting wrench is gonna be your best friend. Also, torx bits. Thanks, and yeah I wasn't really expecting to find many people my age on here, though I've encountered a few. I've saved about $7,000 and I'm hoping to spend about half that on the car to give myself a nice cushion. It's gonna be hard to wait for the right car considering how long I've been waiting to be able to buy one. I think I'm gonna start a build thread once I pick one up, so be on the lookout for it if you ever want to follow up on my progress.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3154_10):
Originally posted by ThatM20Guy Well I'm a senior here so that counts. As for the driving thing, you aint invincible. One of my buddies friends a couple years back had a really clean 318 with an m52 swap and then hit some standing water while on the highway and completely destroyed it :( When you do get an e30 car, I'd wait a little while to start the modding. Don't make the mistake that I made of buying the car with some issues, and then before I fixed all of the issues I started getting parts to mod it. It's frustrating because I am still hunting down problems and haven't even installed the parts I got because I don't want to introduce even more problems. Make sure it's as close to 100% it can be, then start putting on parts. Sorry to hear about your friends car. When I was a freshman there was a senior who had an 88 325is that was an awesome car, and he's the one that got me into e30s. Not too long after he graduated he hydroplaned on the highway and got hit by an 18 wheeler. The car was completely totaled but he walked away without a scratch. It certainly is a rude awakening but unfortunately these things happen. Although this is subject to change, I think wheels/tires/suspension is all the modding I'll be doing other than maintenance and restoring parts of the car. I'm not claiming to be invincible when driving because none of us are. you can't control everything, but there's a lot you can do to try to prevent a crash

ANSWER 4 (id: 3154_11):
Originally posted by BaltimoreBimmer I wish I had gotten into e30s when I was in highschool In pretty much every way you think about it they are the perfect first car. Plus girls like them ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

ANSWER 5 (id: 3154_12):
Originally posted by E30_Evan Although this is subject to change, I think wheels/tires/suspension is all the modding I'll be doing other than maintenance and restoring parts of the car. I'm not claiming to be invincible when driving because none of us are. you can't control everything, but there's a lot you can do to try to prevent a crash Yeah I am in the same boat with the modding. Have brand new shocks/struts waiting to go in but waiting till I get springs so I don't have to take struts apart twice. Just take your time and it will probably turn out well. Looking forward to see what you get ;)

ANSWER 6 (id: 3154_13):
Originally posted by ThatM20Guy Yeah I am in the same boat with the modding. Have brand new shocks/struts waiting to go in but waiting till I get springs so I don't have to take struts apart twice. Just take your time and it will probably turn out well. Looking forward to see what you get ;) One of the nice things about e30s is the fact that they appeal to everyone, from high schoolers to seniors. Don't want to do anything super crazy because this will be my transportation until I get another one. That's when the real fun can begin :) I'll be sure to put a link in this thread to my build thread when it starts

ANSWER 7 (id: 3154_2):
Just please make sure you know how to drive and don't wreck it. To many times i see high schoolers spend 5-6k on really clean cars and wreck them in 6 months cause they feel invincible.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3154_3):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Just please make sure you know how to drive and don't wreck it. To many times i see high schoolers spend 5-6k on really clean cars and wreck them in 6 months cause they feel invincible. I'll do my best but that's the risk you run when you have such a fun car at my age. Plus you can't control other people on the roads, and they seem to be the biggest liability.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3154_4):
Originally posted by E30_Evan I'll do my best but that's the risk you run when you have such a fun car at my age. yeah being dead is pretty fun. Especially at your age

ANSWER 10 (id: 3154_5):
I bought my first e30 when I was a senior in high school, a 1988 325ix, I paid like $2800 for it and honestly it wasn't the greatest car in the world but I spent a decent amount of time fixing things on it and it taught me a lot about cars. I would say don't spend all your money on the car itself, spend less than you have saved and keep a chunk of it for repairs and unexpected costs, because they will happen with a car 25+ years old. If you don't own a halfway decent tool kit yet, go buy one. I have had a craftsman kit I bought around fathers day for $60 and between that and some other tools I kept buying one by one as I needed them I have been able to take apart and rebuild my cars without any real issue. These cars beg to be worked on, and honestly they are simple enough and there is enough info online you can do just about anything on your own. I eventually parted out my first e30 a year after I graduated highschool but that was because I bought a 318is which I like better since it is RWD and I have been using it as a turbo project car. Which I have no complaints about since it has been an amazing learning experience. I'm currently 22 and still in college and I don't think I would do it differently if I had redo it. The e30 community is amazing and just about everyone I have meet because of my car has been nothing but kind and helpful. I constantly get pulled over by others in e34's / e30's and tons of thumbs up even though my car looks like ass.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3154_6):
Originally posted by ccsdo5 I bought my first e30 when I was a senior in high school, a 1988 325ix, I paid like $2800 for it and honestly it wasn't the greatest car in the world but I spent a decent amount of time fixing things on it and it taught me a lot about cars. I would say don't spend all your money on the car itself, spend less than you have saved and keep a chunk of it for repairs and unexpected costs, because they will happen with a car 25+ years old. If you don't own a halfway decent tool kit yet, go buy one. I have had a craftsman kit I bought around fathers day for $60 and between that and some other tools I kept buying one by one as I needed them I have been able to take apart and rebuild my cars without any real issue. These cars beg to be worked on, and honestly they are simple enough and there is enough info online you can do just about anything on your own. I eventually parted out my first e30 a year after I graduated highschool but that was because I bought a 318is which I like better since it is RWD and I have been using it as a turbo project car. Which I have no complaints about since it has been an amazing learning experience. I'm currently 22 and still in college and I don't think I would do it differently if I had redo it. The e30 community is amazing and just about everyone I have meet because of my car has been nothing but kind and helpful. I constantly get pulled over by others in e34's / e30's and tons of thumbs up even though my car looks like ass. Luckily my dad has a very large collection of tools and plenty of know how. I'm also into 240s (you can save your jokes) and the e30 community compared to the S-chassis community is exponentially better. I've talked to a lot of e30 owners and they are some of the nicest most helpful people I've met.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3154_7):
Originally posted by Das Delfin yeah being dead is pretty fun. Especially at your age Compared to other kids at my school, my chances of dying are pretty low considering I don't drink and drive, don't text and drive, drive manual, not stupid, etc.

ANSWER 13 (id: 3154_8):
Well I'm a senior here so that counts. As for the driving thing, you aint invincible. One of my buddies friends a couple years back had a really clean 318 with an m52 swap and then hit some standing water while on the highway and completely destroyed it :( When you do get an e30 car, I'd wait a little while to start the modding. Don't make the mistake that I made of buying the car with some issues, and then before I fixed all of the issues I started getting parts to mod it. It's frustrating because I am still hunting down problems and haven't even installed the parts I got because I don't want to introduce even more problems. Make sure it's as close to 100% it can be, then start putting on parts.