QUESTION ID: 1889

QUESTION:
A few pix from the trip home. My youngest spawn and I made the 3000+ mile journey. Our route was Costa Mesa-->Phoenix--->Sonora, TX-->Baton Rouge, LA-->Savannah, GA-->Charleston, SC-->Cary, NC Picked the car up from Mike's shop I have to say, Mike was beyond awesome. He was better than his word in every way, and it was great to meet him again (I'd met him at SharkFest many years ago). Our first stop after leaving with the car was the beach so we could put our feet in the Pacific ocean (We also had side trips to Pensacola Beach and Hilton Head, SC to do the same in the Gulf and the Atlantic.) Stopped in the Phoenix, AZ area to crash with one of my best friends (who happens to have an E30 'vert) It was a lot of this for a long time... #everthingisbiggerintexas ? We stopped for a bit in San Antonio (some family history there, though nothing recent) New Orleans was great, though the streets weren't kind to the E30 :( I mean, ya have to... Anyway, took fewer car-pix than intended, and zero video. Mainly focused on having a good time with him. We got home late :) ​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1889_10):
Originally posted by khiobrien2 Drop the channel name once its up! Glad it got to a great home where it is being driven. I uploaded the second vid. to the channel. I'm already getting myself in trouble - lol https://www.youtube.com/@E30Journey

ANSWER 2 (id: 1889_11):
So awesome, road trip after buying a car is the best way to get to know it IMO. Plus you and your son will always have this memory. I kinda wish I had seen this thing in person when you were in Phoenix. I want those seats and to try them out haha

ANSWER 3 (id: 1889_12):
Originally posted by iXBeater I uploaded the second vid. to the channel. I'm already getting myself in trouble - lol https://www.youtube.com/@E30Journey Just watched both episodes. That turn signal situation is the perfect example of what working on an E30 is like, lol.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1889_13):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 So awesome, road trip after buying a car is the best way to get to know it IMO. Plus you and your son will always have this memory. Oh we've got memories - I played "East Bound and Down" every day But seriously, I am so glad he came on the trip - definitely special for me and hopefully for him. If there's anything I've learned it's that you're not promised any day, so do what you can to have no regrets. Hard when life is general chaos, but great perspective if you can get there. The trip thing is a hard thing to describe - days of hard driving, but looking for distractions and opportunities to stop for a little fun that isn't crazy long and not killing the poor spawn by talking the whole time (I'm a talker...). But it works out - I drove my eldest spawn to Seattle from NC after graduation, which wasn't fun car-wise (hauling a trailer with an SUV), but we definitely had a great life experience - stopped in Arches National Park, etc. Originally posted by DEV0 E30 I kinda wish I had seen this thing in person when you were in Phoenix. I want those seats and to try them out haha We glided down to Gilbert pretty late, and were out fairly early too. That's one stop where I wish I'd had more time - my friend who lives there is one of my best. As for the seats, my butt is a bit wide for them these days, but they're terrific. Not sure what they sell for.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1889_2):
Originally posted by rmdashrf i wondered if that E30 was gonna end up here, seemed like a great build. Congrats! It's honestly better than I expected. I thought it would be pretty high-strung, but it drives perfectly fine/comfortably in traffic and then zips when asked to on the throttle. This car belongs here, and I'll definitely need the help

ANSWER 6 (id: 1889_3):
Originally posted by iXBeater A few pix from the trip home. My youngest spawn and I made the 3000+ mile journey. Our route was Costa Mesa-->Phoenix--->Sonora, TX-->Baton Rouge, LA-->Savannah, GA-->Charleston, SC-->Cary, NC Our first stop after leaving with the car was the beach so we could put our feet in the Pacific ocean (We also had side trips to Pensacola Beach and Hilton Head, SC to do the same in the Gulf and the Atlantic.) . . . Anyway, took fewer car-pix than intended, and zero video. Mainly focused on having a good time with him. We got home late :) ​ This is amazing for so many reasons. #1 It definitely found a good home and it immediately started with an awesome road trip. #2 I love the idea of stepping your toes in 3 huge bodies of water in one trip. #3 Please keep this thread going and post some more pics of your experience with the car

ANSWER 7 (id: 1889_5):
Originally posted by 2mAn This is amazing for so many reasons. Thanks - much appreciated. It's nice to rejoin the community vs. just lurking ;) Originally posted by 2mAn #1 It definitely found a good home and it immediately started with an awesome road trip. I've kinda done this a lot over the years. It isn't intentional, but I definitely don't mind the adventure-aspect it brings, even if a small one in some cases. This is actually my third trip across the country - the first was to bring my E39 5-speed Touring back the NC from the Portland area (I did the feet-in-the-Pacific/Atlantic thing that time too), the second was to move my spawn from NC to Seattle (pulling a trailer in a Mazda SUV) and of course this one. Originally posted by 2mAn #2 I love the idea of stepping your toes in 3 huge bodies of water in one trip. A friend of mine did something similar on his motorcycle a long time ago, and it kinda captured my imagination (and my youngest spawn's indirectly). It's good fun, and an excuse to be at the beach ;) Originally posted by 2mAn #3 Please keep this thread going and post some more pics of your experience with the car. Definitely will. I'm going to keep track of it on a small YouTube channel too - seems like fun.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1889_6):
Originally posted by iXBeater Definitely will. I'm going to keep track of it on a small YouTube channel too - seems like fun. Drop the channel name once its up! Glad it got to a great home where it is being driven.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1889_9):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK Happy the car made it the rest of the way without issue! Nice to meet you! You guys are awesome - great to meet y'all too!