QUESTION ID: 1147

QUESTION:
Hey all, haven't been around for a few years, but I was smart & kept my beater mothballed. So last week prior to s14 server swap a guy posted a link & I knew most SE belt retractors I'd seen (Ted had great pics)-are flat, not the traditional plastic round "fishing reel" covers. But: the webbing looks right (not herringbone pattern), and the pics show the belt tag, like these aren't a belt strapping swap in some shop. What you all think? Am I sending back some $3 bills? (Fakes) Pardon Our Interruption... http://m.ebay.com/itm/321635515918?txnId=1396485393011

ANSWER 1 (id: 1147_1):
Linus - I can't confirm or deny whether they are "original" belts but below are my observations: -Belts are missing the "Autoflug" name and logo as on originals -Stitching in Ebay auction is covered, but appears to be in a "X" pattern, not the back and forth lines as original -Tags on the parts bag have the Roundel on them - most items I get from BMW either have the Roundel OR BMW Teile on them - not usually both - this may vary by country/dealer service network... Samples of originals to compare: http://www.ecstuning.com/Search/Site...003/ES2561674/ http://www.ecstuning.com/Search/Site...3005/ES185838/ -Chris

ANSWER 2 (id: 1147_10):
Pics are poor, but the red stitch with the story of these being original to a Sport Evo, yet the webbing is truly new condition & all else seems aged- corrosion on edges of zinc hardware & reel cages, the tags being bent, and the typical wear to the buckles just make it seem like the webbing is new, and the cake topper of no idea if these reels are the SE sized ones (got to pull my cards to size). I get you Barry, but seatbelts are core safety parts - I really just have 2 concerns: -Are they real? (not super important, because if safe I'll run them) - more an issue if I was to sell down the road, etc. & other member buying these same units. -Are they safe? They look like the stitch is tight & plenty of passes, maybe even factory (if anyone here on R3V has a Sport Evo & your stitch is red, would like to know) What I mean by the premeditation part was it would take a smart SOB to use the exact date range tags, save bags just to sell as new parts (all are mid '89), if the cages are the right ones for a SE, etc. ---Really more work than I'd expect anyone would go to, but who knows. They seem safe, but another member here has talked to the seller about more of these, so in a way I'm looking out for him mainly - for my ~$700 I have belts that seem safe, the web seems like OE, and I do plan to run 'em. Overall reality check - that other place sells their tribute sets for ~2x that. The big part is knowing if these are real is to keep another guy from paying for real & getting these, if these aren't genuine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1147_2):
I'm leaning towards them being real. Those tags look similar to the ones on the e36 red belts. That's a good amount of work to fake everything even the factory part stickers. It looks like it even has the dealer tag from the order. If you have it in hand does all that match up? If there were fake belts this good going around i think we would see more of them

ANSWER 4 (id: 1147_3):
I'm no SE belt expert but they look legit to me. BMW could have changed manufacturers at some point so being slightly different doesn't necessarily make them fake. Either way, don't worry...few people will know the difference and even fewer will care.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1147_4):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I'm no SE belt expert but they look legit to me. BMW could have changed manufacturers at some point so being slightly different doesn't necessarily make them fake. Either way, don't worry...few people will know the difference and even fewer will care. Agreed. On the other hand, if not 100% authentic, are they safe (seat belts intended use)? I am not a seat belt expert by any means. OP please update if you install with a brief feedback. Thanks Kash

ANSWER 6 (id: 1147_5):
Will post good pics just to clarify what I bought. ECS was my last hope, like you were talking Chris - but I guess I been "out of the game" too long, just fortunate to have what I do it seems. Barry - yep, prob outcome is that if they are safe, I'll just run 'em, not like I'm doing a concours genuine Sport Evo rebuild (can't even get back the S14 the car had) -tried to buy it back - so really all I'll have is a show horse with a S54/s50b30-32, so not like this is some exraordinary car. Just want to know what I have for confidence, either in a crash or someone else's life is brought to that quick, humiliating stop with that chorus of rumpling metal. I'll be around again now that I have my own shop space.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1147_6):
You can try this shop. Their belts look great, but I don't know about their quality. They also claim they use new OEM non-evo mechanism. SHOP | gaphix http://gaphix.com/shop/brk-143-belt-replacement-kit-for-bmw-e30-m3-coupe/

ANSWER 8 (id: 1147_7):
Well, got a text belts are ~2 days from landing on my porch, so it'll be interesting to see what I get. I'll post pics & let the r3v experts decide - seems legit since I've had some convo's that seller had a friend (who contacted me for other reasons) -with a true Sport Evo & used his VIN to purchase, so I've been told. ::shrug::

ANSWER 9 (id: 1147_8):
Mark - ha, I really don't know. -Story told to me is these were in a wrecked Sport Evo, then as that car was parted these belts went to seller in Spain, who ran them until a few yrs ago, then got a new set (I have pics of bags, but sorta don't apply to these belts in my mind - how they were packed is all. Tags on belts date right for a '90 Sport Evo (all 4 are mid '89's) --- BUT --- the stitch is red, and I swear all have said supposed to be black. Counterpoint to that is the FR belt loops have wear/stain from riding the rods on floor, and pics show how the buckles stained the back of webbing - they are clean, but clearly not new material. I'll update this with pics so all here can decide if these are genuine or blatant fakes. Aside from red belts I'd seen in a few e30 Picnic cars, I've only seen web pics of belts - never paid attention. If they are fake, it was done by someone who knew to stitch in dated tags for the right timeframe of part building of Sport Evo components, and the wear is enough to be when there were still belts available - like they really had to pre-meditate the faking. Expect pic update real quick, then all can weigh in.