QUESTION ID: 16

QUESTION:
So I've been lucky enough that it hasn't rained much until about now but now that it is raining I'm noticing water start to leak into my trunk and pool where the stock jack is stored. I just replaced my trunk seal and out on brand new taillight seals so idk where this water is coming from. I was reading from some other posts about possible sunroof drains being plugged but no one was clear about if that actually leads to this leak or even where they're located exactly. Any help would be appreciated! I really don't want to lose the battle against the onset of rust haha Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 16_0):
Sit in your trunk with a flashlight and have your significant other spray the trunk with a hose. I found a leak in mine around the bolts that held the license plate on. I put a bit of silicone around the threads, and it stopped the leak. Sometimes they leak around the tail lights too.

ANSWER 2 (id: 16_10):
Yea the condensation happened in my trunk a couple times too. I haven't found the time to dig around my trunk yet but I plan on checking those rear vents hidden behind the shrouds and the sunroof drains. If all else fails ill drill some tiny holes and paint them over to prevent rusting and call it good haha

ANSWER 3 (id: 16_11):
Originally posted by K1CKBAC My problem was because the gasket around the vent was bad. same here. + the plastic grommets holding the exterior c-pillars were leaking water in, which pooled a TON of water into the jack area.

ANSWER 4 (id: 16_12):
mine was leaking and pooling on the opposite side, and i tightened the trunk latch, to make it tigher when closed. that seemed to do something, although i don't see how it would. so maybe it's just me.

ANSWER 5 (id: 16_13):
Sit in your trunk with a flashlight and have your significant other spray the trunk with a hose. I found a leak in mine around the bolts that held the license plate on. I put a bit of silicone around the threads, and it stopped the leak. I'm pretty sure Penn & Teller use this. The "Old Hide In Your Trunk" Trick. And sure Teller has to do it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 16_2):
The sunroof drains are hoses that connect to the vents on each side of the trunk. Sometimes the hose simply pops off, I'd check that first. Antenna grommet is definitely another possibility.

ANSWER 7 (id: 16_3):
Awesome. This gives me some leads on what to do this weekend. Ill check the license plate cause that seems like it could be a serious culprit on my car haha Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 16_4):
Originally posted by azndeugene Awesome. This gives me some leads on what to do this weekend. Ill check the license plate cause that seems like it could be a serious culprit on my car haha Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Mine was leaking there and would travel to the jack side, and into the spare tire area. Trunk leaks have rotted a lot of e30's!

ANSWER 9 (id: 16_5):
There's also a small metal plug in the bottom of the jack well. I noticed it because my car's battery well is missing the vent hose and I had to plug up the hole on that side (non-vented battery) and then I looked on the other side and it has one of those little metal covers with the jaggy teeth. It's something they must have used on the assembly line.

ANSWER 10 (id: 16_9):
I had this problem on mine, because my trunk is slightly dented. Hydroplaned into somw bushes and its dented. Still closes, but dented. I cant undent it either so i just took a thin drill bit and drilled 5 holes in a line in the middle of that cavity, to let it all drain out. I live in florida so it rains a TON and this helps alot. I found the piddle in my car when i noticed rverything in my trunk was wet. The puddle evaporated, then condensated on my trunk roof, and soaked everything -_- Sent from my SCH-I605 using Tapatalk