QUESTION ID: 891

QUESTION:
Anyone have experience with this flywheel? Page title goes here http://racehead.com.au/products-page/engine-components/bmw-racing-flywheel-2/ Page description goes here My car is getting swapped - M52. Don't want a flywheel that's too much of a pain in traffic, although, the chatter won't bother me. Are these flywheels good? If so, how usable for daily driving are they? Only mods to engine will be S52 cams and M50 intake.

ANSWER 1 (id: 891_0):
i have it on my m20 and i like it not bad at all in traffic and this motor likes to rev zing zing check the end of my build thread for install pics and feedback

ANSWER 2 (id: 891_10):
Originally posted by 5Toes I have one for my m42. Installing soon.. been putting the job off until my clutch is finally toasted (its getting close lol) its super nice and machined very high quality. buy with confidence. Also, their shipping took only 3 or 4 days. I am very impressed all around So any reports on the Flywheel on your M42?

ANSWER 3 (id: 891_6):
I have one for my m42. Installing soon.. been putting the job off until my clutch is finally toasted (its getting close lol) its super nice and machined very high quality. buy with confidence. Also, their shipping took only 3 or 4 days. I am very impressed all around

ANSWER 4 (id: 891_7):
Originally posted by HCMW Adam Nando, I would like to know if RHD is going to make you that flywheel. Their product looks good and I am interested in the same thing. Well, the answer is basically no - I think the minimum order was like 500 pieces or something. However, I lucked out - it turned out that his shop had accidentally machined a 228mm M20 flywheel with the 6 bolt N52 pattern. I need to move the dowel hole location, but I got it last year for basically the cost of shipping. I think it's something ridiculous like 7lbs. Unless you are doing the swap in an ix or something that requires the Getrag260 transmission though, just use the 6 speed that comes with the engine and get the matching flywheel for it. There are "lightweight" flywheels available for the N52/N54 with a 6 bolt pattern, of course they aren't as light as this one (probably more than double the weight) but they work with the 6 speed, clutch and N52/N54 starters.

ANSWER 5 (id: 891_8):
Thanks for the update. I am somewhat inclined to use my 260 as it is relatively new. That being said, if a nice engine tranny combo is on a pick and pull I will probably take both. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk