QUESTION ID: 3153

QUESTION:
Haven't seen this posted yet so I thought I'd share. The /DRIVE youtube channel is doing a series with an old $2000 325is. Looks like it could be pretty entertaining. https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHa6PXrV-yIgeTzW9Aln05WusRVT2naXq

ANSWER 1 (id: 3153_10):
Originally posted by varg The only people who look at E30s as an investment to make money off of are people who don't like driving them, because driving a "collectible car" ruins its value to the type who pays big bucks for it. If you're buying a car that's fun to drive and modifying it to be more fun/faster, you aren't likely the type who is concerned with resale value. YESSS so well said Varg! I cringed so much watching this video... god damn

ANSWER 2 (id: 3153_11):
Originally posted by roguetoaster It is odd that E36s haven't picked up the slack as they're a more competent track platform than the E30 and have a low point of entry. I've always wondered the same thing. I mean lets face it the e36 is the better car. We swap in e36 engines, we swap in e36 steering racks, some of us swap in e36 brakes, and if we could we would swap the entire e36 suspension over. Also once you ditch the boat anchor seats and some of the other BS I wonder how much lighter the e30 actually is. The best part is you can pick up a 328i for about $1,000 in some cases and if you ever have a bad day at the track then it'll just cost you a $400 318i and swap everything over. Originally posted by Luke_M Counterpoint: Who would complain about the car(s) they own going up in value? That's so confusing to me. Varg touched on this, but I don't want the e30 to turn into the next M3. Its already at the point where I question about leaving the car stock for value purposes or modifying it for fun. I can't imagine how the M3 guys still swap out the S14's.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3153_12):
Originally posted by roguetoaster It is odd that E36s haven't picked up the slack as they're a more competent track platform than the E30 and have a low point of entry. I'm scratching my head at this as well. I recently saw a super clean 328is 5 speed with sport package for sale, only asking $3500! If it had been a comparable e30 it'd sell for twice that.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3153_13):
Originally posted by Luke_M Counterpoint: Who would complain about the car(s) they own going up in value? That's so confusing to me. Pretty much what varg said. But r3v members are notoriously cheap, and if E30 prices go up, that means E30 parts prices go up, and the consequences range from the E30 becoming less fun due to rising prices to flat out unaffordable. Also, as prices rise, the focus of the community tends to shift from driving the cars as they were intended simply for ones own enjoyment, and the modifications that go along with that, to more of a collectible, garage queen, car show type. The only benefit is that cars that would have typically been junked, or turned into track rats, ratted out, etc. might now instead be restored. My first car was a Datsun 280Z, and the community I think is pretty similar, if not a bit hardcore with regards to performance modifications, and the I think the Z is a bit ahead of the non-M E30 with regards to rising prices. At this point, I can't see myself buying another Z. The nicer ones are too expensive, and too nice to do what I want with them, and the poorer ones are hard to find here in usable condition. It sucks to see. But again, the flip side is that they are more likely to be preserved and restored. It's a double edged sword. I'm glad that my two Zs are crappy enough that I'll never feel bad about modifying as I please. Same with my E30. Nice enough car, but it has a salvage title. It'll likely never be worth anything. Of course, some cars, like the 240SX, could have benefited from prices going up much sooner than they did.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3153_2):
I no longer feel bad about what I paid for my E30. Yikes. That is a rough looking E30, for $2000. Also that broken fog light is definitely not a fog light. I wonder if the former owner is on here.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3153_4):
It'll be a long time as there are just so many E30s, and so many of those have already been given a comprehensive track car treatment, which saves them from the scrapper for years (unless they crash out). It is odd that E36s haven't picked up the slack as they're a more competent track platform than the E30 and have a low point of entry.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3153_5):
Originally posted by roguetoaster It is odd that E36s haven't picked up the slack as they're a more competent track platform than the E30 and have a low point of entry. Not old enough to be vintage and in vogue I would think.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3153_6):
Originally posted by varg How long until there are no more new E30 lemons/chump/GRM cars because examples that aren't rusting to bits are just too expensive? Too soon IMO. Not a big fan of these rising prices.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3153_7):
Just watched the first episode. Man, I am going to start hoarding any E30 I can find. Appparently even absolute shitboxes are being sold for 2k. Insanity.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3153_8):
Love /Drive and their love of the e30. Give me more please :) Counterpoint: Who would complain about the car(s) they own going up in value? That's so confusing to me. Also, as the barrier for entry goes up (albeit slightly) the amount of care they receive should improve as well. Keyword there is should. I'm not totally convinced about that myself. Just a thought.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3153_9):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is Man, I am going to start hoarding any E30 I can find. Too late. Originally posted by Luke_M Counterpoint: Who would complain about the car(s) they own going up in value? That's so confusing to me. The only people who look at E30s as an investment to make money off of are people who don't like driving them, because driving a "collectible car" ruins its value to the type who pays big bucks for it. If you're buying a car that's fun to drive and modifying it to be more fun/faster, you aren't likely the type who is concerned with resale value.