QUESTION ID: 3460

QUESTION:
Have not been able to access much info so I figured I would ask. Anyone here a member? I hear that the magazine that comes with the membership is well worth the price, but I just wanted to see how others like it and make my decision off that. Also, anyone a current member with a discount code? I plan on doing a 3 year memebership if it all plays out just because its good bang for your buck. And a get a grill emblem :p

ANSWER 1 (id: 3460_0):
I've been a member for a few years. Just renewed on Tuedsay. I also added the E30 chapter to my membership. The Roundel is a good magazine and always read and hung onto for awhile. Membership also gets you a discount at your home chapters track events. BMW Car Club of America http://www.bmwcca.org/ Not sure where/if there's s discount code.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3460_1):
Roundel magazine is ok. I let my membership lapse, but when I had it, I basically retained it for the autoX/track event discount and parts discount at dealers. It paid for itself each year, due to those features.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3460_2):
Great club. Great magazine. Great weekly e-mail. Great tech help from Mike Miller. Great parts discount at local dealer (no need to hassle with online/mail order), Great local, regional, and national events. Membership fee is a no brainer. Icing on the cake is the $500 check they sent me from BMWNA when I purchased a new 3 series.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3460_5):
For anyone who wants to join the E30 Chapter, please use http://bmwcca.org/join/514821 to enter us both in the drawing for a day at M School! For those of you who are already members of the CCA, I’ll ask you to please consider changing your primary chapter to E30 CCA, or adding us as a second chapter like doorman did. The cost for existing members to add a secondary chapter affiliation is only $15 annually. Thanks!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3460_8):
Technically it's headquartered in SC since that's where the CCA national office is located; the officers reside in NC, TN and VA. It's a bit different in that it's not regionally based (like a typical chapter would be). We're one of only two chassis-specific national chapters - E31 being the other.