QUESTION ID: 497

QUESTION:
Hi all, Looking to upgrade the speakers / sub in my 92 e30 and am looking for recommendations. I already have the Porsche Classic head unit, now will look to upgrade the front component speakers, rear speakers, amp, and sub. I'm leaning towards doing a passenger footwell subwoofer (I have one on my e46 convertible and it's great). So really looking at a 5 channel amp, and high quality speaker set. Price isnt really an option, just looking for the best setup that won't require too many modifications... Any recommendations or tips? Thx! Footwell sub from my e46 convertible with an Illusion Audio C10 shallow sub. I'll probably copy this for the e30. My friend's shop does these footwell subs all the time for 911s and made one for my e46... Sure we could make one for the e30 also... C10 – Illusion Audio | High-End Mobile Audio https://www.illusionaudio-america.com/products/carbon-c10/ Illusion Audio High-End Mobile Audio - Designed and Engineered in California behind the sub: and totally hidden with floor mat over it:

ANSWER 1 (id: 497_0):
Not sure if convertibles also have this cavity, but e30dreamin/john_e_a on instagram makes boxes which tuck in the rear quarter panels (empty spaces under the rear popout windows). Invisible when everything is together and doesn't take any passenger footwell room. That's my plan when I'm ready for some car audio.

ANSWER 2 (id: 497_1):
Originally posted by Panici Not sure if convertibles also have this cavity, but e30dreamin/john_e_a on instagram makes boxes which tuck in the rear quarter panels (empty spaces under the rear popout windows). Invisible when everything is together and doesn't take any passenger footwell room. That's my plan when I'm ready for some car audio. It is a great thought, but they dont have that room in the vents. We have the rear speakers there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 497_2):
I just completed the audio upgrade in my vert the same as what you are wanting to do. e30dreamin on instagram built the sub enclosure and I upgraded the H/U and speakers. For being only 5.25", I'm very happy with the JL 2-ways and components. And of course the JLW6 is awesome. My only gripe so far was that I needed to get sound 'through' the firewall, which required cutting out the triangles, per Luke's vert install guide. You can check out my thread (starting on post #42) if you'd like more details and pics but below is summary. You say cost is not an option so be ready to spend some money on this (I added prices below for reference). Great that you already have a head unit. Does it have pre-outs?e30_dreamin ported enclosure - $480-500 + shipping Front Components: JL C2-525 - $300 Rear Mids: JL C2-525X - $219 Subwoofer + cover: JL 10W6v3-D4 - $900 5-Channel amplifier: JL XDM1000/5 - $1000 Amp 4AWG install kit - $60 Speaker wiring - $50 RCA's - $60 Remote level control - $60 Tools / crimps / Kilmat / etc - $50-$100 Of note: 1. e30dreamin also builds wooden trunk panels to replace the bottom carpet, which he's working on for me now. 2. You will need to modify the rear firewall carpet to fit the sub box (you will see below in the pic where I have the carpet reinstalled). 3. You will need to modify the rear panels to fit the 2-ways, which causes a slight poke where the dome is is not super noticeable 4. Be prepared for the trunk to rattle... I'm not done with the Kilmat there but it helps (any sound deadening material will work) ​ A few pics attached (no, I did not install a capacitor and don't recommend it)...

ANSWER 4 (id: 497_3):
Originally posted by m2d2 3. You will need to modify the rear panels to fit the 2-ways, which causes a slight poke where the dome is is not super noticeable What modifications did you make to the rear panels ? Do you have any photos of the work?

ANSWER 5 (id: 497_4):
Sorry for the late reply here. Yes, I modified the rear panels by cutting out a bit of the plastic on the inside. In the attached picture, where the red circle is, on the inside of panel, use wire snips and just cut out a circle as big as needed. It's surprisingly easy to do, just make sure you don't cut through the outer/exposed leather portion. Take your time and be careful. Attached Files