QUESTION ID: 3356

QUESTION:
Hi all, I took my head and short block to a local machine shop, that I was told does work for pro-3 racers. It has been six week already and I'm still waiting for them to get my work complete. Whenever I stop by I'm told it will be done this week. The parts manager keeps promising a running total of my job and only apologizes to say that he hasn't done but he'll do it. They're decking and honing to the short block,polishing the crank shaft, balancing the pistons, crank shaft, flywheel, and everything. Installing new bearings for the aux. crank shaft. replacing guides for the exhaust valves, installing valve seals, springs, regrinding the cam shaft, and valves and decking the head. I'm getting a bit anxious and somewhat pissed that the owner keeps pushing my deadline. I'm pretty sure they are giving priority to jobs from shops who probably feed them continuous business. Is this pattern a reasonable expectation from a machine shop. I'm planning on visiting them tomorrow and ask for a more formal deadline but I also don't want to end up with a rushed and shitty job. What's your experience/advice?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3356_0):
I would stop in and ask if it's due to racing season, then I would tell them that you are pretty sure most customers would be asking about the delay by this time, and if they give you grief, I would ask for your property back to take to a competitor. When I had heads done in a huge metropolitan area, they were delivered back overnight.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3356_1):
Originally posted by Farbin Kaiber I would stop in and ask if it's due to racing season, then I would tell them that you are pretty sure most customers would be asking about the delay by this time, and if they give you grief, I would ask for your property back to take to a competitor. When I had heads done in a huge metropolitan area, they were delivered back overnight. Thanks. I am considering taking my stuff back and pay for the work they've done, even if I may be at the same mercy of another shop. I read a bad review on "Accurate engines" another shop that does work on e30's while the good reviews come from businesses, but I'm definitely planning for plan B. With such a large e30 community I wonder if there is an opportunity for forum members to be recognized.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3356_10):
Originally posted by Poopie It the work is quality, then in the end, you won't sweat the 6 week wait time. The other hand, you could go to another shop and they botch the job and you have to do it all over again. The important thing is that it gets done correctly the first time. If you trust the shop then peace of mind is worth the time. I'd have to agree with this 100%.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3356_11):
took my machinist to do what you said in about a 2 weeks. He said he had to finish up another motor before he gets to mine, i had block hot tanked, bored to 85mm and decked, polish/magnaflux/balance crank/. balance rods,pistons, file fit rings,, deck head, 3d valve cut, valve seats done, check guides for wear. brought everything to him dissasembled. id imagine it takes a good part of the day to balance stuff if they balance to .5gram like mine did. I waited over a year for my pistons...i was kinda angry during the time. but i knew it was worth the wait. and im not angry at all and happy i waited actually. Quality is worth the wait. i'd still question whats going on for your peace of mind. its probably they got cars in that need work before a race if they do lots of pro3.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3356_12):
Thanks for all your great feedback. It feels like going to a support group. I'm going to be more patient so that the shop can do their best job, maybe visit the guys twice a week and build better raport with them. hopefully I'll get to enjoy my car by the fall.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3356_2):
Had nearly the same work completed on my M20 and picked up the parts last Friday...two months after I brought the parts in to the shop! It seems that they have a steady stream of "good 'ol boys" with their Chevys that kept bumping me to the back of the line. I heard one guy had his parts there since 2013 and had just anted up some cash on his $8.0000 debt with them. On top of all that, the rubes LOST my intermediate shaft, and guess who gets to pay for a new one..."Not responsible for loss or theft...blah blah"...GRRR. These days a good local automotive machine shop is a rare beast indeed. Nobody rebuilds their engines locally anymore...they just order long blocks from places like Jasper. When we take our German stuff to one of the few local places left, we have to compete with all the American iron for bracket racers, drag boats, and the other more common stuff. When we do find a BMW-centric shop, they all seem to be populated by ADHD guys who are no more reliable or time-conscious than the old American shops. You pays yer money and you takes yer choice...

ANSWER 7 (id: 3356_4):
Talk to John over at Accuracy. Ask what shop he is using for his stuff, and then see if you can go through him as a reference to said shop. If you aren't having much luck up there, contact me by IM, and I can get you some info about a shop down here. You'd have to drive down to drop it off, but if it's a shorter turnaround, may be worth it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3356_6):
My machine shop does a lot of the dirt track and drag guys in the area. He is a busy shop with only 1 other full time helper and a few buddies the come by for beers and they still knocked out my "ricer rocket" 1.8t that they punched out to 83mm in 2 days and thats with them milling a torque plate since this was the first 1.8t they bored out. 6 weeks would be generous for a full blue printed build if all the parts are there.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3356_8):
Just came back from AutoSport. Spoke with the owner and told him that it was my DD and needed a formal commitment. He said that my stuff will be done, yet again, this week :-) I gave him the benefit of the doubt and didn't take anything back. At least I saw all my parts there in the same bin from six weeks ago. I asked if the exhaust manifolds I took three weeks ago was already sandblasted so we started looking for it. I found them sitting on top on the valves I ended up doing the sand blast which I didn't mind. At least I got something back to work on. The only thing that had been done was the honing and decking of the short block. Hopefully by Friday I'll end-up with a quality job.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3356_9):
It the work is quality, then in the end, you won't sweat the 6 week wait time. The other hand, you could go to another shop and they botch the job and you have to do it all over again. The important thing is that it gets done correctly the first time. If you trust the shop then peace of mind is worth the time.