QUESTION ID: 3114

QUESTION:
Just started reading up. Any good articles/posts I should definitely check out? I'm looking for a 89+ 325is Manual. I'm not mechanically inclined, but I would like to learn! There is also a reputable vintage BMW shop nearby so at least I can go there for the stuff I can't do. I would like to drive it regularly, however. I have my daily driver, and my commute is 80 miles round trip. I'd like to drive it a few times a week to work. Do you think a well maintained 325is could do that a couple times a week without giving up the ghost? Also, I hope I am not in over my head with a 25+ year old car. Thoughts?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3114_0):
to find a car: craigslist, bmwcca, your neighborhood to learn about car: this forum to learn general maintenance: youtube - chrisfix, ericthecarguy, mightycarmods You are going to want to immerse yourself in the library of forums like these. You'll come out in a few months with a much more thorough understanding of how it works and what you need to do to keep it running. I've DD'd my car since I got it (4 years), drove it across the country twice, now at 220k, doing nothing more than fix all the broken stuff and keep up with the maintenance. Just because a car is old doesn't mean you can't drive it...

ANSWER 2 (id: 3114_1):
E30s still make reliable daily drivers, just make sure it has been maintained. Old cars can physically move down the road with surprisingly few functioning parts - having a NICE old car in which all the functions work is a different matter, and takes another level of commitment. I bought a neglected example and it took about 3 months (and getting stranded a few times!) to get all the kinks ironed out to where I'm confident that my car will start every time. Now that I'm at that point I wouldn't have it any other way. Buy the nicest example you can afford with no major issues. Keep the cooling system and timing belt up to date and it should last many more miles.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3114_10):
I hated how little torque the 318 had. And the engine can be problematic. In my opinion go for the M 20 B25 it is going to make for a much more fun daily. Don't give me wrong the 318 is also a great time but if I had to choose I would pick the 325IS every time. But yeah somebody said try and get your hands on one to drive. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3114_11):
Dont expect to buy one and drive it reliably until you have given everything a once over. There are two sides to the reliability factory, on one side they are simple cars (compared to modern) and thus not much to go wrong, on the other side they are 30years old, so parts are starting to see the end of their life. I bought my 323i and realised that basically everything engine and drivetrain wise was starting to see the end of its life. so i gave it a complete once over, head recondition, headgasket, water pump, radiator, fuel pumps, filters, checked all the sensors, new rubber bits whee requried, all new gaskets, new cluctch, new brakes etc. Now the engine and drivetrain is good for another 30years. Mine is a daily driver now, my only car. Gets around 300km a week to work and back. and i don't do anything except change the oil and adjust the friggen valve clearances. Loves it:)

ANSWER 5 (id: 3114_12):
All of the advice above is solid. Can't really add much. I've been dailying my E30 Eta for over 4 years and almost 275K km (she'll be hitting 500K km in the next month or two). I've only had one true breakdown that required a tow, when my fuel pump crapped out. The only other close call was a worn voltage regulator, but with the help of my girlfriend and boosting the battery along the way, I nursed her home and swapped in a new one in 10 minutes. Well sorted, an E30 is a very dependable DD. Follow the advice given, and you'll be golden. Don't be afraid of going balls deep in terms of DIY service. I find it very rewarding... frustrating at times, but what isn't? :)

ANSWER 6 (id: 3114_3):
Originally posted by dnguyen1963 Read up on every post from jlevie if you want to own an E30. Great summation. I'll agree with others; I've daily driven my E30 for over 5 years now, fixing small things along the way. As long as you don't slam it and put 5 million pound springs on it, it'll make a perfectly serviceable daily driver. They're very easy to work on and the parts availability is almost ridiculously good. DO. NOT. buy off-brand parts, though. You'll regret it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3114_4):
You can daily these cars 365 days a year if you want to. I suggest buying the cleanest e30 you can. Start with a great car and you'll have a lot less problems in the future. As for working one the car, hang around here, read a lot of build threads, and general tech stuff and you'll learn a lot. Then on top of that buy a Bentley Manual for the e30 and you'll be on your way to a true e30 enthusiast.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3114_5):
I've daily driven a 1989 325i (now w/ ~330k mostly-original miles) for the past 5 years and before that daily'd a 1988 high-mileage 325i for 7 years. I live in a quiet, hilly area with lots of fun country roads and work a job with odd hours and, thus, little traffic during the commute. I drive the car pretty hard, perform regular maintenance, read jlevie's posts, and have had few problems over the years. Don't get me wrong, confusing things on the car will break, but usually with a 30 second google/r3v search and a reasonable mechanical knowledge you can figure out what's wrong. I've spent a fair amount of time working on my E30s over the years, but generally it's time well spent. It's easier to just do simple stuff at home than have a mechanic do it imo because you can do it on your own time. Parts are very cheap and easily obtainable. I always chuckle at work when someone talks about paying $500 for a brake job on their Ford and I think about changing pads/rotors/fluid on a BMW for $150. I can definitely see E30 ownership being frustrating though if you have never worked on cars. The cars can be very reliable if regular maintenance is kept up to date. This means replacing every rubber item in the car as well as most electrical switches, fluids, etc upon ownership unless documented recently replaced. If you buy a "non-enthusiast owned" E30 just plan on replacing every coolant hose, vbelt, timing belt, plugs, multiple gaskets, as well as possibly the guibo, engine/trans mounts, possibly steering rack, suspension bushings, tie rods, etc... as well as going over every visable part of the car multiple times with a rubbing/polishing compound and microfiber cloth. just part of owning a ~29 year old car. If that doesn't bother you, get an E30.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3114_6):
Find the most unmolested e30 you can find then as others said read this forum as if its the bible, Also buy a bently manual which is the bible. After that drive it and you'll soon figure out what needs to be replaced or fixed and then you will be confident in your car as a daily because you will have personally fixed these issues and can trust it. my first e30 was my daily and i delivered in it 5 days a week driving it very hard, favorite car I've ever owned.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3114_7):
Originally posted by Das Delfin to find a car: craigslist, bmwcca, your neighborhood to learn about car: this forum to learn general maintenance: youtube - chrisfix, ericthecarguy, mightycarmods You are going to want to immerse yourself in the library of forums like these. You'll come out in a few months with a much more thorough understanding of how it works and what you need to do to keep it running. I've DD'd my car since I got it (4 years), drove it across the country twice, now at 220k, doing nothing more than fix all the broken stuff and keep up with the maintenance. Just because a car is old doesn't mean you can't drive it... Thanks for all the replies everyone. Still not sure if I want a 318is or 325is. Any pros and cons of each? Are the performance gains worth the 325is?

ANSWER 11 (id: 3114_8):
In my opinion they are both kind of slow. I've driven a 318is with a 3.73 LSD, Spec e30 suspension, and a light weight flywheel and I love it a lot more than my 325i (Granted its stock). Its going to come down to preference, I suggest you drive a 318i and 325i and see which one you like better.