QUESTION ID: 1709

QUESTION:
Battery Warranties: For years I always recommended Costco but apparently Costco changed their warranty on car batteries. Instead of offering a free replacement before 3-4 years like before, they are now 36 month prorated. So after 18 months, you'd only get about a 50% refund. This means, Walmart, who still has the 3 year free replacement warranty is the new local go to place for inexpensive batteries and you don't need a membership. All battery warranties have seem to lessen over the years. Nowadays, 3 years is the cutoff so what incentive do they have to produce a quality long lasting battery? A lot of things aren't what they used to be, same with batteries. H6/grp 48 vs H8/grp 49: I use H6/group 48 batteries on my E30's but as we know...rear battery E30's can accept the larger H8/group 49 battery. I remember these batteries were more expensive but that seems to not be the case anymore. Costco and Walmart both list their AGM H6 and H8 at the same price. My guess is that H8 has become a more common battery as it's used on many newer cars with a lot of electronics. If it's the same price, mind as well get the bigger battery. It will certainly help with cars that have a lot of accessories and sit for long periods without being driven which is probably most E30's nowadays. The only downside is that it weighs a little more but that's not a big deal on a street car. H7/grp 94R: Since H7's length is in between H6 and H8...these will fit also and are fairly common as well. If you have a front battery mounted E30, this looks like the largest size that will fit without running into issues. T6/group 91 vs H6/Group 48 I've had 2 made in germany Duralast gold T6 batteries that didn't last long in my vert (lots of accessories and driven once a week). It would start to crank slowly after about 3 days of sitting. It's shorter than the H6 and has less CCA's. I went to H6 AGM and haven't any issue with the car sitting a week. The H6 fits front and rear battery E30's just fine, so not sure why people are saying the battery cover doesn't fit. So if you are looking for a batteries, consider which is more common as the price will be cheaper. I picked up a used H8 AGM battery for a registered non op car so I didn't want to spend too much. I figured it should last a good while as it won't see deep discharges and it's rated at 850CCA / 1000 CA's 95aH. So if you have a rear battery E30, take a look at H8/group 49's. They are the biggest that fits the tray and cover. ​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1709_0):
I used the german duralast T6 until I had a few odd failures a few years ago, one of which was a full failure on a new battery. Around the same time they stopped honoring coupons on batteries. Switched to the walmart agm H8 at that time and have had good luck with them.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1709_1):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I used the german duralast T6 until I had a few odd failures a few years ago, one of which was a full failure on a new battery. Around the same time they stopped honoring coupons on batteries. Switched to the walmart agm H8 at that time and have had good luck with them. That's the reason I had 2. The first one just failed out of the blue and would not accept a charge. Autozone honored the replacement but I had to drive a few cities over to get it and I'm in LA. I sold the 2nd one after 3 years and got an H6. More powerful and more common.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1709_10):
I went down the battery rabbit hole a few years back to replace an Interstate battery that died almost exactly at the 7 year mark. From what I remember it's mostly a crapshoot now depending on what supplier and supplier factory the battery came from. I settled on Duracell lead acid, because they are all made by East Penn, which seem to have the most reliable track record, they were still offering a 3 year warranty, and prices were reasonable. I think I've got them at 5 and 3 years without issues so far.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1709_2):
I also had a made in Germany Duralast gold in my daily e36 and it died like a month after the three year warranty expired . Usually gets driven every day but then it sat for around four days and barely started. Shortly after that I accidently left a dome light on over night which killed it. Ended up just getting another one and it's been fine for over five years so far, though it does get started and driven virtually every day and I haven't drained it by accident.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1709_3):
i've been using salvage batteries for years. we have a gov't salvage system here, any battery from them costs $49 cdn. they have a 90 day exchange warranty and are guaranteed to hold a full charge at purchase. have only ever had trouble with one. all 6 vehicles in the family use them. replace one of them every 3 - 4 yrs or so, the cost is so low it doesn't matter and we don't worry about warranty.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1709_6):
I miss the old DieHards. The Sears battery. The darned things just kept on working, no matter what... Now I use Napa, simply because they're closest. And the local guys know me. t

ANSWER 7 (id: 1709_7):
I have no idea what's in my e30 at the moment, I last bought based on vertical height for my battery tie-down... I think it happened to be exactly the right one to upgrade the battery in my Outback, and I fired it in there because it cranked so slowly with the tiny stock battery. Worked out well for the outback but I think my e30 might now have some shitty 12 year old subaru battery in it - so I'm interested in cheap e30 fitment stuff. I have a horrible history with batteries - used to kill one a year over the winter when the car sat. I think I got 3 batteries out of one warranty back in the day. Now I have overcompensated and have a literal pile of Noco battery tenders for anything that sits more than a week or two.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1709_9):
To update the thread....the H8 AGM's are doing quite well. Battery tester showed only about 13% decrease in SOC (state of charge) after sitting 1 week. At this rate it would take 3-4 weeks for the SOC to dip down to 50-60% which is what kills batteries. After having Duralast AGM H6's last only 3 - 4 years or so I did some research and found they require a higher charge voltage so when I would drive the car 10-15 miles, it wouldn't fully charge the battery and the SOC would routinely dip below 50%. To help rectify this, I modified my voltage regulators (diode mod) to bump up the charge voltage a half volt and take longer 20 mile drives. Doing this, was enough to fully charge the battery after each trip.