QUESTION ID: 3576

QUESTION:
Found a 1991 325ix auto for sale locally, buddy wants $5000 CAD ($3800 US) for it. Exterior 6.5/10 interior 8/10. Has idle problem but he says he's sure it's the intake elbow, trunk latch is sticky but works, 230000 kms, and temp gauge isn't working. Extra transfer case, tranny and two front doors are included in the price. New parts including front/rear axles, radiator, steering flex joint, steering rack, power steering pump, ball joints, tie rod ends, brakes, uni joints, gastank and lines, shocks and springs. I would be using it as my daily driver. I'm going to get him to do the "jack test" next time I see it. Is that a fair price? What should I counter offer? Maybe make an offer without the doors, tranny and tc? Hoping someone on here knows more about these cars and what they're worth. Pictures attached, thanks! Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 3576_0):
:) If the jack test is positive and you get all the parts, this is a great deal at 3800. usd Be sure to check the level of fluid in the transfer case. The intake boot is a cheap fix, and will really change the idle, most likely it will idle too high once you fix all the vac. leaks:) gl, looks like a nice one, jm

ANSWER 2 (id: 3576_1):
Originally posted by 2002jm If the jack test is positive and you get all the parts, this is a great deal at 3800. usd Be sure to check the level of fluid in the transfer case. The intake boot is a cheap fix, and will really change the idle, most likely it will idle too high once you fix all the vac. leaks:) gl, looks like a nice one, jm Thanks for your input! I think I'll take it to a shop to check how solid underneath is and check for leaks etc

ANSWER 3 (id: 3576_2):
Assuming the car passes the jack test and there's no serious structural rust in the frame rails, rear spring perches, rocker panels or floor rust, this is a no-brainer! And you can sell me the extra auto transfer case :)

ANSWER 4 (id: 3576_3):
Originally posted by 101 Assuming the car passes the jack test and there's no serious structural rust in the frame rails, rear spring perches, rocker panels or floor rust, this is a no-brainer! And you can sell me the extra auto transfer case :) Haha, if I end up buying it I'll keep that in mind!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3576_6):
Looks good! I feel like ix's stay on the market for a while up here (at least in Toronto). I have seen a few on Kijiji that looked pretty decent for very cheap stay up for a few weeks. That one looks very good though!