QUESTION ID: 2754

QUESTION:
I am planning on doing a transmission swap for my 91 coupe. For whatever car I buy is the best way to make my money back on buying th parts car to sell it whole or part it out? Anyone do this and how much of a hassle is it?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2754_2):
I did this last summer. I found a great running 93' manual vert with redone seats and new top. I would've kept it and just sold my good running 91' auto vert but it had been it just needed too much body work and the interior was literally an ash tray. Anyways, to answer your question, I was able to make my money back buy selling the engine, top, seats, and some body parts. My main reason on doing this was to have everything swapped from one car to the next. I did replace worn parts so always add that to you overall cost, clutch, flex disc, csb, ect. I ultimately gave the shell and other parts to the person doing the swap since he was doing me the favor of holding on to the car since I didn't have the space.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2754_3):
Swap out Would it be worth it if i had a title for said parts car to throw my automatic transmission into the parts car and wire it up? Or is it too much effort?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2754_5):
Originally posted by Slybeanx Would it be worth it if i had a title for said parts car to throw my automatic transmission into the parts car and wire it up? Or is it too much effort? So you want to buy a manual car (running or not), take out the manual and put in your auto, then sell the car (still running or not). And the goal is to have the car with the auto be worth the same as when it had a manual? That's gonna be tough. You have two options: 1) You get the parts car with title for free, so you break even even if you give it away. 2) You buy a manual with a cheap problem (broken ground strap, torn intake boot, lost key, etc.) and can fix it for next to nothing. Then you may be able to sell the car for a profit. But keep in mind, buying the car and fixing it has to cost less than what its worth as an auto.