QUESTION ID: 1287

QUESTION:
So I noticed some install the H&R sport springs made for a Coupe on their Cabrios. Why is that? Is it so the rear can be lower? Here are the specs of each version that I found - H&R Sports for Coupe - F - 1.3" R - 1.3" H&R Sports for Cabrio - F - 1.4" R - 0.75"

ANSWER 1 (id: 1287_1):
That and/or they think it makes no difference but fact of the matter is Eibach/H&R, etc. have different part numbers for E30 springs based on model for a specific reason. On the convertible with the added weight in the rear, it bottoms out regularly with standard lowering springs. With race springs the stance is even lower but at least the spring rates are much higher. I'm actually in the market for a set of H&R cabrio springs for mine.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1287_11):
The front springs are the same on the coupe and Cabrio, the rear springs are different. My car is heavier in the rear after my swap (heavier e36 M3 exhaust, bigger battery, sub, full size heavier 16" spare etc) and it was rubbing with my 225's in the rear with the coupe H&R rears when I had harder acceleration. I switched the rear to the Cabrio and it raised my rear just enough that I am now getting the rubbing and I have a slight rake that I wanted. Before with Coupe rear After with Cabrio rear

ANSWER 3 (id: 1287_13):
Originally posted by arcpolo H/R sports convertible specific springs, Koni SA Thats what Im riding on and its perfect IMO. Hopefully your fronts are for a sedan so you can adjust them from the top

ANSWER 4 (id: 1287_3):
Originally posted by berndt I did the cabrio springs a few months back. No complaints. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Add me to that list...plus Koni SAs

ANSWER 5 (id: 1287_4):
Originally posted by reelizmpro That and/or they think it makes no difference but fact of the matter is Eibach/H&R, etc. have different part numbers for E30 springs based on model for a specific reason. On the convertible with the added weight in the rear, it bottoms out regularly with standard lowering springs. With race springs the stance is even lower but at least the spring rates are much higher. I'm actually in the market for a set of H&R cabrio springs for mine. That's what I was thinking too. Not sure why so many do this.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1287_8):
Slightly off topic. I installed the H&R OE sports (the tall ones) with KYBs on my cabrio. Even with the battery moved to the trunk, it still maintains a pretty nice nose-down stance. That could be partially due to worn subframe bushings though.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1287_9):
Originally posted by funcrew Slightly off topic. I installed the H&R OE sports (the tall ones) with KYBs on my cabrio. Even with the battery moved to the trunk, it still maintains a pretty nice nose-down stance. That could be partially due to worn subframe bushings though. If your subframe bushings we're far enough gone to effect stance, I suspect it would be undrivable