QUESTION ID: 2741

QUESTION:
Are any of the r3vlimited Facebook mods active here? Apparently I've been completely blocked from the page. I never even received so much as a warning. ...like the r3vlimited FB page is gone. Someone sends me a URL...it says this page doesn't exist...find it on Google in incognito...log in, it goes away. Just hoping for at least an explanation...or to be added back. I'm far from a troll...so not sure what I could have done.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2741_1):
Originally posted by JasonC I'll vouch for you. Although I'm not a mod or admin on there. Thanks. Haha. It actually took me a while to realize it...at first I just thought Facebook changed their algorithm again. I was wondering why my e30 content died down. :(

ANSWER 2 (id: 2741_10):
I was going to say - I removed myself from the r3vlimited FB group a while back. The stupid just burned... If you want some lulz for dayz - get in on E30 tech. It's Triple Face Palm territory. I am constantly sending screen shot to my buddies of the "amazing" mods and fixes I see on that page. Never fails to entertain.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2741_2):
R3V facebook is clearly having its effect on you... I recommend you stay away and enjoy the content here... unless you're looking for mindless enjoyment

ANSWER 4 (id: 2741_3):
Originally posted by 2man r3v facebook is clearly having its effect on you... I recommend you stay away and enjoy the content here... Unless you're looking for mindless enjoyment This, but we also provide mindless entertainment!

ANSWER 5 (id: 2741_6):
Originally posted by 2mAn R3V facebook is clearly having its effect on you... I recommend you stay away and enjoy the content here... unless you're looking for mindless enjoyment Currently getting my mindless FB entertainment from the H2oi car show page.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2741_7):
Originally posted by 2mAn R3V facebook is clearly having its effect on you... I recommend you stay away and enjoy the content here... unless you're looking for mindless enjoyment I thought that was the purpose of this site? Originally posted by Reichart12 Currently getting my mindless FB entertainment from the H2oi car show page. link or it didn't happen

ANSWER 7 (id: 2741_8):
I love the r3v forum...but I'll be honest. I'm lazy and Facebook is easier for simple reading and posts. If I actually want to learn something or troll someone...I come here...because nowhere else are the tires trina pope. Lol

ANSWER 8 (id: 2741_9):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella I thought that was the purpose of this site? link or it didn't happen 2023 (OG OCMD Group 80k Members) | Facebook https://www.facebook.com/groups/H2OiOCMD2016/?fref=nf