QUESTION ID: 2728

QUESTION:
There are only a few mechanics in my area who specialize in BMWs, and I've been let down by their reliability and professionalism (and maybe trustworthiness). Do y'all ever bring your cars to "generalists", or should I suck it up and stick with the BMW folks?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2728_0):
Depends on what you need serviced/repaired. Now that these cars are technically antiques, finding someone who cares enough to do a good job is very difficult. I've luckily found an indy shop who specializes in BMW's and one specific mechanic who appreciates the small attention to detail I give my car. As a result when he works on my car there are many small things he'll repair "just because" and not charge me for them. I find that unless I get to speak to and create a bond with the mechanic themselves, I generally avoid the shop. Otherwise you might find yourself constantly disappointed with many shops (as I was before finding this one, I literally was considering selling my car for this reason alone!).

ANSWER 2 (id: 2728_1):
A good mechanic is a good mechanic. They will do a great job servicing a 2018 mini van, as well as rebuilding a 35yr old car.You don't specifically need someone that specialises in BMWs. You want someone who will take the time and effort to assess issues properly, read manuals and take advice and generally knows what they are doing. I am a bit cynical and have been burnt enough times to realise these people are few and far between in the automotive industry.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2728_10):
Originally posted by dnguyen1963 I am not a mechanic and I have been working blindly on the car forever. It still runs. Not sure if that's a testament to the mechanics ability, or e30's durability

ANSWER 4 (id: 2728_11):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Not sure if that's a testament to the mechanics ability, or e30's durability Definitely, E30's durability. You really do not want me to work on your car. I use whatever I have in my garage to keep it going.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2728_2):
I didn't ever take my cars anywhere, except the BMW dealership that was near me. Now I have moved and there are a lot more indy shops around me, which I would trust more than a 'general' mechanic. I usually do all the work on my own cars though. I have had non-BMW cars and places like Midas have treated them like crap/ripped me off/etc so I wouldn't go to a random shop in general unless you have a good recommendations for them from someone you trust.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2728_3):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Depends on what you need serviced/repaired. Now that these cars are technically antiques, finding someone who cares enough to do a good job is very difficult. I've luckily found an indy shop who specializes in BMW's and one specific mechanic who appreciates the small attention to detail I give my car. As a result when he works on my car there are many small things he'll repair "just because" and not charge me for them. I find that unless I get to speak to and create a bond with the mechanic themselves, I generally avoid the shop. Otherwise you might find yourself constantly disappointed with many shops (as I was before finding this one, I literally was considering selling my car for this reason alone!). do your homework and interview the mechanic. like stanley said... if they don't give you their time and care about you and your car... fuck em. it's all about good customer service. sent from hell using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 2728_4):
Originally posted by e30davie A good mechanic is a good mechanic. They will do a great job servicing a 2018 mini van, as well as rebuilding a 35yr old car.You don't specifically need someone that specialises in BMWs. You want someone who will take the time and effort to assess issues properly, read manuals and take advice and generally knows what they are doing. I am a bit cynical and have been burnt enough times to realise these people are few and far between in the automotive industry. Agreed - I have to admit I've been ripped off more by "Euro Specialists" than I have general mechanics; although I tend to do most things myself or with my Dad who was a mechanic and engine rebuilder. Lets face it, an e30 is simple to work on for any experienced mechanic - many cars came with motronic injection (or L-Jet for that matter) so they're not really that hard. The young guys I'd be more concerned about than the older guys if they aren't interested in older cars - you can't just plug in the OBD2 port and have the car tell you what's wrong :)

ANSWER 8 (id: 2728_5):
Good advice above. I'd also recommend connecting with the local "cars and coffee" crowd or your local BMWCCA chapter for their recommendations. It's all about developing a relationship with the repair shop / mechanic that you're going to comfortable with. Trust your gut instinct - it is usually right.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2728_7):
mechanic For me it's what I can afford given limited means. So for repair work the order of preference is: 1-me 2-a good indy and 3-dealer. I wish I could just take it all to the dealer and pay the price.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2728_8):
Modern dealers can't fix an E30. Modern mechanics are undertooled to fix an E30. You want an old fart like me who's grown up with the things, and might even still remember when Motronic 1.3 was high- tech. Around here, there are plenty of 'known' E30 garages- most generalist- and there's a mechanic or 3 who gets all the E30s and does a great job. But there are also quite a few smaller shops that aren't 'known' who know what they're doing. You find them yourself, first by asking, then by driving in and seeing what their attitude- and critically, their mechanics' attitudes is to your car. fwiw, t