QUESTION ID: 1751

QUESTION:
Looking at getting a Quick Jack scissor lift, but not sure about the size, i want to be able to fit it under my e30 but i also have a full sized truck that i want to use it on. i was looking at the 7000tlx. has anyone used that one on a e30 also anyone have any experience with using quick jacks?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1751_0):
I have had a Quick Jack 5000 for 2 years. Best tool in the garage in my opinion. I maintain an E30, E46 and F30. I easily have it in use 2-3 times a month. Highly recommend. I would take some measurements before you pull the trigger on the 7000, though, as I think it is longer than the 5/6K versions and may not fit the jack pads.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1751_1):
I did measure the for the TL and TLX models. and the TL will deffintely fit, but the TLX looks like it will fit but the measurement is basically from tire to tire on my e30. i think it might be too close,

ANSWER 3 (id: 1751_10):
You bring some valid thoughts to this discussion. I've just had a slab poured and lugging the Quick Jacks to and from said slab out from the garage would be a PITA. I'd have to leave them out on said slab... and for what the Quick Jack costs... being exposed to the sun and elements isn't something I like the idea of. Side access too. Maybe another solution is better for my needs right now.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1751_11):
I think I'm just going to get a floor jack cross beam for now (for safer lifting, and can lift one whole side at a time). i already have 6ton jack stands that are about 2 feet high. if I had a wider garage where I could leave them set out all the time I think it would be worth it to me https://www.harborfreight.com/steel-...eam-64051.html

ANSWER 5 (id: 1751_12):
Originally posted by D3R3K I think I'm just going to get a floor jack cross beam for now (for safer lifting, and can lift one whole side at a time). i already have 6ton jack stands that are about 2 feet high. if I had a wider garage where I could leave them set out all the time I think it would be worth it to me https://www.harborfreight.com/steel-...eam-64051.html I forgot about the cross beams, I think I'm going to pick one of those up with a new floor jack.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1751_13):
I never understood the appeal of the quickjacks, for most of the stuff I do with the car up on stands I really like that side access that the quickjacks lack. I can't see laying them out and hooking them up being any quicker than what I do now either, which is to lift the front and rear alternately with my floor jack by the crossmembers and put the car on stands. Physically easier, sure. I can see the appeal of MaxJax though, unfortunately I don't think they would fit well in my garage.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1751_2):
One thing to keep in mind is the scissor motion itself can create some clearance issues, it essentially is operating in two planes up/back as you lift. Seems obvious but is easily overlooked, especially when in a rush and trying to tuck the lifted car against a closed garage door, ask me how I know...

ANSWER 8 (id: 1751_3):
Originally posted by av8drvr One thing to keep in mind is the scissor motion itself can create some clearance issues, it essentially is operating in two planes up/back as you lift. Seems obvious but is easily overlooked, especially when in a rush and trying to tuck the lifted car against a closed garage door, ask me how I know... thanks for the tip, i definitely noticed that from some of the videos ive seen on them

ANSWER 9 (id: 1751_4):
FWIW, there are floor jacks and jack stands that provide the same work height (~24 inches), cost a 1/3 of the price, and require hardly any space to store when not in use. Dont get me wrong, Quickjacks are cool. But, I don't really see the advantage of them, except maybe saving you just a few minutes lifting the car, when compared to jack + jack stands? Money down the drain... and a lot of it. https://www.harborfreight.com/3-ton-...lue-56641.html https://www.harborfreight.com/automo...ack-58342.html

ANSWER 10 (id: 1751_5):
Originally posted by AlexJ FWIW, there are floor jacks and jack stands that provide the same work height (~24 inches), cost a 1/3 of the price, and require hardly any space to store when not in use. Dont get me wrong, Quickjacks are cool. But, I don't really see the advantage of them, except maybe saving you just a few minutes lifting the car, when compared to jack + jack stands? Money down the drain... and a lot of it. https://www.harborfreight.com/3-ton-...lue-56641.html https://www.harborfreight.com/automo...ack-58342.html I agree with you but that’s also part of my dilemma. I plan on doing more work in the near future so I keep going back and forth weather or not I should get them

ANSWER 11 (id: 1751_7):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 Relevant thread been staring at these on their main website and others for years. I’d like to pull the trigger on one soon. ive have been as well, check out the costco website they sell them at a cheaper price, i think im gonna get it now while its on sale or wait and see about black Friday entails

ANSWER 12 (id: 1751_9):
I've used Quick Jacks and... while they're nice, they aren't (in my opinion) necessarily more convenient than a regular jack and stands. I don't notice any time or energy saved with quick jacks-- you still have to lug things around the car, line them up, and lift. The time that the quick jacks save you in lifting are offset by you fumbling with the hoses and fittings. You're still going to be on the floor setting them up correctly either way. To get the most out of them, you'd have to store the quick jacks in a nearly-ready-to-use state, where one side always has the hose connected and the cart with the pump is easy to access. Just unwrap the one hose to bring it around to the other side. But who's going to dedicate garage space to have these things in a ready position? Only someone who will use them often. Otherwise a standard jack is perfectly sufficient. Quick jacks are more of a flex to me. Also, being able to go under the car from the side can be very convenient with regular stands. Keep in mind, that option will be inhibited with quick jacks in the way. Quick jacks also may interfere with objects near the frame/sills, such as rear subframe bolts, and possibly brake lines. It's not a deal breaker, just a consideration. Anyone who is around the age that they loathe the idea of getting under the car, may think that quick jacks may make the process a little easier. Hate to break it to you, but, getting under the car sucks no matter which way the car is supported. Save up, drill some holes in your floor, and try out MaxJax. They're also flawed, but better than either previous option.