QUESTION ID: 3215

QUESTION:
Seems like half the people selling aren't really interested in selling at all, rather interested in seeing how interested other people are in buying, then changing their minds last minute the second I let them know I'm interested in actually buying. Latest find is an 88 iX... needs a bit of cosmetic work, but might be worth it. Planning on having an actual look in a few days: http://spokane.craigslist.org/cto/5962509592.html Let me know what you think (yes, the wheels are horrid).

ANSWER 1 (id: 3215_1):
..dude, then you aren't looking very well. There was THREE just before the holidays on the Craigslists down here. They were all in decent shape and reasonable priced. If I recall one or two were sticks. Now if you happen across one that needs parts, we have a bunch of iX specific stuff (trannies, blocks, body kits.)

ANSWER 2 (id: 3215_10):
No problem here on waiting for the right one and definitely ready to pay up when I find it (don't mind paying a bit more for the right car). I can't see settling for an auto though.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3215_11):
Originally posted by jasonsc Definitely looking for something to keep for the long haul. Looking at this salvage iX in Vancouver too. Car has impeccable records (CarFaxed it), up to last year when the salvage title was issued. https://vancouver.craigslist.ca/pml/cto/5914994015.html If you can get him down to about $4K, that's not a bad deal. 8800 is a bit step for a rebuilt title, and what it is. But he may just have a pie-in-the-sky number to root out the flakes. Call him up and talk to him.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3215_12):
Originally posted by djjerme If you can get him down to about $4K, that's not a bad deal. 8800 is a bit step for a rebuilt title, and what it is. But he may just have a pie-in-the-sky number to root out the flakes. Call him up and talk to him. Seconded.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3215_13):
Originally posted by Eisenhower I've been looking on the west coast for a couple months now. Most of the decent one's seem to go pretty quick. This one doesn't look to bad. http://bellingham.craigslist.org/cto/5946617423.html I don't know how you tell, that ad is terrible.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3215_3):
So I get that you're discouraged, but you've been looking for all of two weeks, which is a very short time when ix shopping. As a buyer you pretty much need to be willing/able to drop everything to go look at a car you are actually interested in as soon as the seller indicates that they can meet. As a seller, if someone seems flexible/ready to set up a time I'm happy to work to accommodate them, and it shows me that they might be serious, even if they flake at a later date. However, exchanging a couple of emails/texts without trying to set up a time to look at the car means that the buyer is still very much shopping. Further, you gemerally don't learn much for emails/texts, so it's always my preference to just inspect a car in person and be ready to buy it on the spot.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3215_7):
Originally posted by jasonsc Would anyone here be weary of a salvage title if everything on the car checks out? Depends on what your intentions for the car are. You gonna keep it forever? And I mean, are you REALLY going to keep it forever? If so, then salvage title would not bug me, after I had completed a more thorough inspection of the car. If you ever plan on selling it, even if you have the slightest inclination that you might sell it, pass on the salvage title.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3215_8):
Definitely looking for something to keep for the long haul. Looking at this salvage iX in Vancouver too. Car has impeccable records (CarFaxed it), up to last year when the salvage title was issued. https://vancouver.craigslist.ca/pml/cto/5914994015.html

ANSWER 9 (id: 3215_9):
IX's are becoming quite rare, when looking for an e30. They can be had for a good price if you are willing to wait months and months or can settle for an automatic sedan. I do understand that most people are selling them for inflated price. I don't see e30s decreasing in value, so if you have to pay a bit more now then just do it. Also I wouldn't worry about a salvage title as long as you can't find any major damage. Also selling can become an issue if the buyer is out-of-state.