QUESTION ID: 138

QUESTION:
Hey all, Got a proper R134 retrofit planned for my '85 325E. Currently it's already had a retrofit, but that was just O-rings and fittings (got a fancy plate saying it was done oddly enough). It's never held freon for long since the day I bought it, so my guess is the R12 hoses have kicked the bucket after having however many years of R134 run through them (spitballing because I never got a proper leak test done). And since I've got a planned trip to BC from SK planned for this summer, no better time to get this thing sorted. What I've planned to buy:AC Solutions kit (interior lines, Nissens condensor, late model receiver drier so I can swap to the single switch setup, expansion valve, O-rings) - actually just purchased this one. Grommet for interior lines going out to engine bay. Various insulation tapes and caulk cords in case I need it. What I'm curious on is should I plan to reuse my evaporator or replace it? Reason for replacing comes back to me never having done a proper leak test on the system; so if there was a leak at the evaporator I'd rectify that. But the only evaporators near me are from 4 seasons, the Rein has been OOS for a while. If I do reuse it, is there anything I should do past cleaning the fins? I was thinking of doing a flush, but it probably won't be necessary unless I find gunk in the hoses near the expansion valve. I took a cursory glance at the location, I sure hope I can remove it without bending anything. Also I did find this album linked on the r3v FB page a while back, going to use it for reference as well: https://flickr.com/photos/31451342@N...th/15222146005. As well as these:https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...ion-thread-diy https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...roblem-i-think https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...page2?t=342398

ANSWER 1 (id: 138_0):
As far as I understand its relatively easy to remove the evaporator on a LHD car, so if you want to be conservative you could remove it, clean it and test it on its own. (or take it somewhere to be tested) Or do what i did, replace everything else, and cross your fingers it passes the vac test. and when it does celebrate.

ANSWER 2 (id: 138_1):
Originally posted by e30davie As far as I understand its relatively easy to remove the evaporator on a LHD car, so if you want to be conservative you could remove it, clean it and test it on its own. (or take it somewhere to be tested) Or do what i did, replace everything else, and cross your fingers it passes the vac test. and when it does celebrate. Yea I figure this'll be the route I take. I've only been able to source a 4 seasons evaporator (Rein is out everywhere in Canada), so hopefully this one plays nice. I'll probably keep my old one just in case.

ANSWER 3 (id: 138_2):
I think it’s more likely that your leak is from your compressor vs the AC hoses. If it is your compressor, my experience is it is more cost-effective and less time wasted to get a new Sanden unit. You will have to source an adapter to fit the Sanden to your existing AC compressor bracket, and either new hoses or end fittings will be required. FCP Euro claims to have the Rein evaporator available for $151.99, rather than mess with attempting to rehab your old one I would just get new.

ANSWER 4 (id: 138_3):
The stock evaporator is most likely corroded and clogged up - it is nearly 40 years old after all. If you're changing the rest of the system, why not change it as well. Especially if you're already replacing the interior lines and expansion valve. If you really want the Rein one over the Four Seasons I can get you a new one for $150 plus shipping.

ANSWER 5 (id: 138_4):
Originally posted by ghrays I think it’s more likely that your leak is from your compressor vs the AC hoses. If it is your compressor, my experience is it is more cost-effective and less time wasted to get a new Sanden unit. You will have to source an adapter to fit the Sanden to your existing AC compressor bracket, and either new hoses or end fittings will be required. FCP Euro claims to have the Rein evaporator available for $151.99, rather than mess with attempting to rehab your old one I would just get new. Originally posted by E30SPDFRK The stock evaporator is most likely corroded and clogged up - it is nearly 40 years old after all. If you're changing the rest of the system, why not change it as well. Especially if you're already replacing the interior lines and expansion valve. If you really want the Rein one over the Four Seasons I can get you a new one for $150 plus shipping. Thanks all. Yeah as far as I’m aware, a proper retrofit to R134A back in the day would include a Seiko-Seiki compressor, new drier, new expansion valve. And I don't see any of those on mine so they're getting swapped anyways (compressor clutch doesn’t even activate so it’s dead). I’ve already gone ahead and got the full AC solutions kit with the Sanden compressor, bracketry, and hoses. Going to swap to the single pressure switch setup as well and cut out the need for 2 switches.​​ And I said fuck it and got the 4 seasons evaporator but thanks for the offer. I'm probably already going to get dinged for customs on the kit so I figure I may as well buy locally.