QUESTION ID: 2060

QUESTION:
The story I heard was that in the early days of BMW the engineers were concerned with quality control of the cars frame and body. So, to that end they pulled every tenth car from the production line, took it to the roof of the factory and pushed it over the edge. If any welds broke they would go back and mash up the previous ten cars and carry on.. Call this the empirical method of QC . True of false? tg

ANSWER 1 (id: 2060_0):
Originally posted by Tom Galloway The story I heard was that in the early days of BMW the engineers were concerned with quality control of the cars frame and body. So, to that end they pulled every tenth car from the production line, took it to the roof of the factory and pushed it over the edge. If any welds broke they would go back and mash up the previous ten cars and carry on.. Call this the empirical method of QC . True of false? tg never heard that one. i heard about them using m10 taxi blocks as a base for the 80's turbo cars. also a wild one about them pissing on the blocks for some reason that eludes me.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2060_1):
It's clearly false since you don't need an assembled car with suspension to test welds, and simply destroying the previous 10 cars would not necessarily solve the issue of batch built subcomponents.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2060_2):
German engineers would never use this kind of primitive QC mechanisms. I could believe the story, if you claimed that this happened in Russia in -70's. Chief of communist era automotive plant has taken too many bottles of vodka and put workers to drop cars from the roof. When workers have argued, chief has taken Kalashnikov and shooted some rounds in the air.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2060_4):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop I work for the BMW at the plant where most of the X models are built. I will say this, it doesn't take much for them to scrap a car and start over. Be sure to tell them that all activity models and X coupes have a terminal QC issue.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2060_7):
Yea, I thought it was kinda weird - how tall was the building ? - But , as we know from architecture " The empirical method of engineering has been proven effective".