QUESTION ID: 1768

QUESTION:
I currently have an ANSA cat-back exhaust on my cabriolet. I went to get a new one, only to learn ANSA has stopped producing them. I find Stromung too loud. Anything I should look at? I would love to hear it!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1768_0):
Ive always thought the magnaflow exhaust was a good compromise sound wise - not terribly loud but still better than stock. https://www.turnermotorsport.com/p-1...gle-rear-exit/ And theres a TON of sound clips for their exhausts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ys27g9GjWrI

ANSWER 2 (id: 1768_3):
yeah. usually loud af. I recommend vibrant with a nice resonator. You'll get the tone, no drone and only loud if you get up in engine speed with the gas pinned otherwise, no one is gonna be looking at you.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1768_4):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy yeah. usually loud af. I recommend vibrant with a nice resonator. You'll get the tone, no drone and only loud if you get up in engine speed with the gas pinned otherwise, no one is gonna be looking at you. Is Vibrant a brand name?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1768_7):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy 800 bucks is wild for a cat back Seems to be the going rate for a nice quality cat back these days. I was shocked too when I saw what a racing beat cat back costs for my RX7. This is why I learned to weld all those years ago when I found out what having a shop weld an exhaust for my Volvo would cost. Welder + materials was cheaper.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1768_8):
Running an all-vibrant setup on my car. Mufflers and resonators are nice and high quality, but the price matches. The stock muffler location on an e30 makes it harder to use their mufflers with integrated tips, so you'll need to add hangers to the car if you go that route. IMO placing the muffler in the stock location and making tips is the way to go - if I could go back, I'd do this and save some money and headache. I don't like their vbands though. Clamps are good, but the flanges are very thin. The $25 amazon stuff works just as well at 1/4 the price (just make sure you buy a fully featured one with the male/female flange and quick release clamp with a metal nut) and they have fat flanges so there's less warpage when they weld.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1768_9):
I just went to the Vibrant website and priced out a resonator and muffler for only $226 with NYS tax and they send you to Summit to buy them so the shipping is free. At that price I can let a shop do the install.