QUESTION ID: 2148

QUESTION:
As the title says, here's what i'm trying to achieve. m42 valve cover - Imgur Same photos are attached to thread. I like the top two the most. After prepping and cleaning the surfaces, What paint do I use? Assuming it is in fact paint, and not the colour of the metal? Doing the work whilst a timing and head gasket service is done, anything else I should Clean/paint while I'm at it? Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2148_0):
IMHO a few options... BEST vapour honing / wet blasting = gives a nice finish, especially on cast alloy surfaces BETTER sandblast (or a very good clean through some other means) + Engine enamel e.g. VHT engine paint (but it's paint and need to treat accordingly) GOOD Sandblasting = gives a rough finish,

ANSWER 2 (id: 2148_1):
Originally posted by Tzantushka IMHO a few options... BEST vapour honing / wet blasting = gives a nice finish, especially on cast alloy surfaces BETTER sandblast (or a very good clean through some other means) + Engine enamel e.g. VHT engine paint (but it's paint and need to treat accordingly) GOOD Sandblasting = gives a rough finish, Thanks so much. I've been doing a bit of googling... Wet blasting does seem to leave a good finish and is probably the simplest option.. Someone from the fb E30 group I'm on haid theirs wet blasted and it sort of looks like there is still some discolouration/staining. Saw similar on google, it looks to work really really well for newer parts, but older parts appear to struggle a bit to get them fully clean? I might stick with vht paint at this stage. Someone from fb also showed me theirs which they powder coated, it looked really really good. I might try get some quotes on powder coating as well Incase it's affordable. ​​​ Thanks!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2148_3):
I've had great luck with glass bead blasting (dry) and afterwards using a quartz coating (Gyeon Q2 Rim) to ad an extra layer of protection. It's resistant up to some pretty high temps as the coating is meant for wheels/exhausts + oil wipes of very easy and it doesn't stain. I don't like to look of the vapor honing, to me the aluminium just "shines" to much.. It's been I think 3 years and it still looks perfect