QUESTION ID: 2108

QUESTION:
Here's my question: When someone owns an E30 Touring, he is called Eccentric, Quirky, Odd, etc. When someone owns TWO of them, what is he called?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2108_0):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy A son of a bitch This is your chance to be part of the club! The Purple One is for sale and going on Bring a Trailer soon. Ridiculous offers are currently being accepted.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2108_3):
I was going to say "Envied" but since he's selling the purple one because he can't or won't keep both - "Pitied" One man's misfortune is going to be another's win!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2108_4):
I don't really want to sell the Purple Car. It's in great shape and needs nothing. But I only have room for one toy car and the grey one is a 6 cylinder car (320i) with air conditioning. I couldn't pass it up. Whoever the next owner of the Purple car is will be very happy. It's a great driving and looking car. I'll be sorry to see it go.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2108_5):
Originally posted by twright I don't really want to sell the Purple Car. It's in great shape and needs nothing. But I only have room for one toy car and the grey one is a 6 cylinder car (320i) with air conditioning. I couldn't pass it up. Whoever the next owner of the Purple car is will be very happy. It's a great driving and looking car. I'll be sorry to see it go. I get it, I almost pulled the trigger on a few design editions, one being the last purple one on BAT, but I'm glad I got mine with Factory AC. Just removes one of the many headaches. Can you put in all of that stuff into another car? Sure, but it would be a PITA.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2108_6):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 I get it, I almost pulled the trigger on a few design editions, one being the last purple one on BAT, but I'm glad I got mine with Factory AC. Just removes one of the many headaches. Can you put in all of that stuff into another car? Sure, but it would be a PITA. I'd like to leave the Purple Car as is. It's a really nice car, and I don't want to cut it up.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2108_7):
Originally posted by twright I'd like to leave the Purple Car as is. It's a really nice car, and I don't want to cut it up. Oh no I get that too, I wish you much success on BAT.