QUESTION ID: 697
TOPIC: seat_swap

QUESTION:
I was bored so here we go... Tools needed: 10mm socket Razor blade or exacto knife Pen Flat head screwdriver (BMW tools ftmw) Parts needed: Rear Headrests (2) Rear Headrest Mounts (2) Hole Covers w/ their clips (2) Begin by taking out your rear seats. To remove the bottom bench simply lift up at each end of the seat. There are two clips that hold the rear bench in place. The red arrow shows the one the driver side. After you got the bottom bench out, it's time for the upper part. Two 10mm bolts hold this piece in place as well as two clips. The red arrow points to the bolt on the driver side. Once again, same thing needs to be taken off on the passenger side. To remove the seat simply lift up. After the seats are out the inside of your car should look like this (perhaps w/ the ski hole still intact): Here's what the clip that holds the seat in looks like : Now with the seat out of the car we can begin working on mounting the headrests. This is where the mounting kit attaches but first we will need to make holes for the headrests and coverings to go through. To do this I just took a pen and centered it as best as I could in the opening of where the mount attaches. Now do the other one so it looks like this Now we have to use a razor blade to make the holes a bit bigger and trim off the excess vinyl in order to fit the coverings in. Take off the white part of the cover. This is the clip which holds the cover in place. You are going to have to trim until you can fit the cover into the hole you made on the top part of the seat. Once you get it in, from the back of the seat you insert the white clip and snap it into the cover. I used a flat head screwdriver to secure the clip back on. Once you get both on you can begin to install the mount. It sits on the seat like this: It takes two 10mm bolts to secure this piece. Now take one headrest and insert the shafts into the covers, once it hits the mount it'll clip in and should look something like this: Repeat the steps to do the other side. Once you have both headrests installed. Reinstall the seats in reverse order that you took em off. Remember to pull the seat belts back to make sure they are not behind the seats upon reinstallation. Final product: If you have any questions feel free to PM me or post them up!

ANSWER 1 (id: 697_1):
Ya, looks fairly ok. I'd like to see it from the outside of the car, looking in the rear. Question: Which headrests are rear headrests, or can I just use regular front seat ones?

ANSWER 2 (id: 697_10):
Originally posted by N2MYE30 For some reason when I put my rear headrests on my cabrio, it use to rub just a tiny but but now its all good. If you angle the HR forward a bit, no problems for sure. Both of my cars have them and still one of my favorite upgrades. Not to get OT, but I have to say that your vert is one of the cleanest I have seen...I have been meaning to tell you that. BTW, are your wheels the style 5s????

ANSWER 3 (id: 697_12):
can't wait for spring time- get the cabrio un-stored, back on road. got some headrests, husco arm rest and a bunch of interior rare(r) parts to slap on yipyip!

ANSWER 4 (id: 697_2):
Headrests are headrests. I have read before that rear vert headrests are smaller to allow the top to be lowered. I just installed my rear headrests using those from an older 7 series. Only good natur leather I could find.

ANSWER 5 (id: 697_4):
For some reason when I put my rear headrests on my cabrio, it use to rub just a tiny but but now its all good. If you angle the HR forward a bit, no problems for sure. Both of my cars have them and still one of my favorite upgrades.

ANSWER 6 (id: 697_9):
So can the front headrests from any e30 seat work on the rear seat???? There are several e30s in our local pick n pull that have the headrests still in them. I would love to do this to mine....