QUESTION ID: 1948

QUESTION:
I’ve been on instagram latley and have noticed several shops but they don’t seem 100% has anyone bought form e30worldshop or e30 Portugal?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1948_0):
Haven’t heard of these places. E30worldshop seems legit (they also have FB presence but no reviews), but I’d be careful buying from places that don’t have reviews. When you’re buying from people on this forum, FB marketplace, or Ebay (which IMO is the best because pretty much everyone and everything has a rating), you can at least check their reputation as a seller pre-purchase. That’s one of the biggest downsides of trying to buy off an IG seller - IG is used mainly for flexing so not much seller presence on there and no real easy way to verify seller reputation as for e30portugal, I’d avoid doing business with a place that doesn’t appear to do business in English (unless you’re fluent in Portuguese).

ANSWER 2 (id: 1948_1):
Originally posted by ZeKahr Haven’t heard of these places. E30worldshop seems legit (they also have FB presence but no reviews), but I’d be careful buying from places that don’t have reviews. When you’re buying from people on this forum, FB marketplace, or Ebay (which IMO is the best because pretty much everyone and everything has a rating), you can at least check their reputation as a seller pre-purchase. That’s one of the biggest downsides of trying to buy off an IG seller - IG is used mainly for flexing so not much seller presence on there and no real easy way to verify seller reputation as for e30portugal, I’d avoid doing business with a place that doesn’t appear to do business in English (unless you’re fluent in Portuguese). The e30world wide looks legit but when they post it says it’s in cali and the account says located in Europe, but when you goto their website the payment info is in Russian, so I was kinda skeptical and wanted to ask around

ANSWER 3 (id: 1948_2):
Originally posted by D3R3K The e30world wide looks legit but when they post it says it’s in cali and the account says located in Europe, but when you goto their website the payment info is in Russian, so I was kinda skeptical and wanted to ask around Avoid, avoid, avoid. I see plenty of red flags based on what you just told me

ANSWER 4 (id: 1948_4):
Originally posted by D3R3K I’ve been on instagram latley and have noticed several shops but they don’t seem 100% has anyone bought form e30worldshop or e30 Portugal? What are you trying to buy that you can't get from normal places? ebay, forums, dismantlers, etc...

ANSWER 5 (id: 1948_5):
Originally posted by McGyver What are you trying to buy that you can't get from normal places? ebay, forums, dismantlers, etc... Cheap replicas, I guess. BMW E30 | Mtech2 | rear spoiler for late model (REPLICA abs plastic) – e30worldshop https://www.e30worldshop.com/product/rear-mtech2-spoiler-for-e30-replica-abs-plastic/

ANSWER 6 (id: 1948_7):
I bought something from e30_worldshop from Instagram in 2020. Got a Zender front valance replica. Shipped to California for $280, with tax my Paypal account shows $305. Parts came from Ukraine. Paid on July 31, followed up and asked for shipping info on August 16. Got info August 18. No record of when it arrived but I have it painted with primer and installed on October 7th. Quality was fine, slightly beat up fiberglass replica. Fits well on my car with its rust and dents. If going on a show quality car, you might want some actual fiberglass work done on the replica first. I think buying from social media from other countries will always feel a little sketch but if another part came up by this guy, I would take the risk again. I had bought euro bumpers from a forum/IG guy years prior but he had a more dismantler presence.