QUESTION ID: 633

QUESTION:
This is for the folks with M-Tech II kits looking for a guide or anyone looking to understand how to install an M-Tech II kit properly. This is an original installation manual in PDF format. Click on Link. http://www.scchosting.com/e30/M-Technik%20II.pdf

ANSWER 1 (id: 633_1):
Originally posted by loonibab325i awesome find It sure was! and it's going to come in handy when I install my m-tech kit. Thanks to James C. , for helping me get this up as a link.

ANSWER 2 (id: 633_4):
A fucking godsend, I'd been looking for this for ages. How did you get your hands on it? And whats better my body man is Hispanic and now I have it in Spanish too! :-P EDIT: Thats odd, says the stock jack doesn't work with M-Tech II kits and says to replace it with another. I guess there's a jack specifically for M-Tech II...

ANSWER 3 (id: 633_5):
Originally posted by M42Technik A fucking godsend, I'd been looking for this for ages. How did you get your hands on it? And whats better my body man is Hispanic and now I have it in Spanish too! :-P EDIT: Thats odd, says the stock jack doesn't work with M-Tech II kits and says to replace it with another. I guess there's a jack specifically for M-Tech II... A few months ago I did a lot of searching/asked questions in a few bmw and e30 forums. Till one day a member from e30zone sent me a message with a fellow members ID and email, stating he might be of help. Sent him an email, and he sent me the pdf.

ANSWER 4 (id: 633_6):
Originally posted by chicozoo17 A few months ago I did a lot of searching/asked questions in a few bmw and e30 forums. Till one day a member from e30zone sent me a message with a fellow members ID and email, stating he might be of help. Sent him an email, and he sent me the pdf. I thank you for your troubles! Hopefully I can actually get the kit on...its been sitting for months in a barn! EDIT: I'm sure it applies to coupes as well...

ANSWER 5 (id: 633_9):
Originally posted by sheefo2k Thank you.., it will come in handy when i need it. Is there a way to translate it to english lol? Sheef...glad to see you have an E30 now. Im "BIMMERJUSTIN" from e46f. I'm the one who bought all of Jeremy's parts :)