QUESTION ID: 1442

QUESTION:
Happened two months ago, on startup of the ride back from work. Had the car towed to my house as I don't really trust the local mechanics to handle the AWD aspect of the car (they aren't able to handle a rear subframe job on a Z3, so....) Tried cranking with the main relay removed and seen oil squirting on the rockers. Reassuring. Tried and started the motor, no light! Tried a couple other times and the problem happened once again... Noticed a weird noise ('cloc') a couple second after engine shutdown... Bought a pressure sensor, mounted it on a plate between the block and filter. Pressure build up is slow AF, like 2-4 seconds without any pressure (wasn't under a second to begin with, but felt like a clear degradation). Cold oil pressure is ok, but as the temp rises, it seemed like I wasn't able to raise pressure with revs and near operating temp it was about 12 psi from idle to 2krpm. Not good. Context : I've had the car for 30 months now and put 40k miles on it during that period (80km daily), it now sits at 175k miles but I don't really trust the odometer... might be twice that... Have done a lot of work on it (all suspension (shocks, rubbers, control arms), brakes, bearings, ... complete engine tune up, vacuum leaks and then some) but the engine always sounded diesely to me, so I never got it above 5krpm... Anyway, I disassembled the front components needed to access and removed the oil pan. No gold flakes inside or the drained oil or filter, but found that the baffle flap had come off, could it be the reason I had the oil light on intermittently from one start to the next, like from the flap being sucked and blocking off the strainer inlet? I removed and disassembled the pump, found a ton of rtv (from the PO pan seal hack job) and some small rocks in the strainer... Nice! The inside of the pump isn't too bad , but I need your advice here as the part might no be readily available... is a surfacing job even an option? Also, in that case, anybody got the spring specs for the pressure relief valve? might also be a culprit to my symptoms...? I was about to get the head off to do a valve job and possibly piston rings as I was burning serious oil (0,5 liter per 1k km, no leaks) and have now selected a machine shop nearby to resurface the block and hone cylinders if needed, on top of the head work. I am now getting in replacing rod (ACL) and possibly crank bearings (??), might as well do all the other small jobs that are advisable with the engine out of the car... (it is still in right now) : clutch, maybe trans bearings, gearshift linkage refurb, trans mount, open the transfer case and check the chain tension... Thanks for reading and for your advice and remarks

ANSWER 1 (id: 1442_0):
Well... Pump is officially NLA from BMW AG! I'll have a try at having the back plate resurfaced and maybe buy new gears (as these are shared with non-iX pumps) Any idea for the spring rate?