QUESTION ID: 3455

QUESTION:
BE PREPARED FOR A READ: Hello everybody, Never had to make a thread anywhere in the past to complain about a company however I feel that this is justified and that people should be aware if they intend to deal with them. Now I have been using schmiedmann for quite a while and spent about 3K US in the last 8 months with them with a fair bit to spend in the future. Every part I have received from them has come with speed and their packaging is usually excellent.. However on one occasion it was not, and this has left me out of pocket. Last month I ordered a new chrome belt molding to match all the other new trims on the E30, I had already ordered one before but found it had a small scratch on it which I just couldn't live with. So I ordered another one at my expense. DHL delivered the parcel to work (which didnt get signed by me), the assist manager of my department brought it round to my desk where we were both suss on the part being bent.. So I took a photo and sure enough it was bent, even the runner for the clips was compressed inwards and warped. So the trim is cactus.. because they wrapped it in this despite sending the last ones in a box. The package was wrapped in thin cardboard, it had no structural integrity to ensure protection and maintenance of the shape of the part. This method would be fine for an item that bends, however this part should of been put in a box. I sent these pictures to schmiedmann the moment I received the part on a Thursday. HOWEVER.. Thursday and Friday they were closed for a holiday. So they didn't respond to my email until Monday. I was told by their claims manager that I need to contact DHL and lodge a claim..However on the DHL website it says only the sender can make the claim as they hold the contract.. Anyway I did what I was asked and as soon as they were open. The lady took my details, we emailed pictures and info backwards and forwards and DHL AUS emailed the info to DHL in denmark. I was told to keep in contact with my supplier as DHL will contact them.. A few days go past and I keep following this up until I call DHL again where I am told that they will need to lodge the claim seeing they hold the account.. FFS..... moments later after being told this I get an email from S-Mann. "I’ve heard from DHL. They are rejecting the case. As the shipment was delivered with acknowledgment without remarks. And claim wasn’t made instantly! " ""If your recipient receives a shipment with visible damage they should Receive, with reservations! Your receiver can also contact your local DHL office and report the damage." I cannot agree to the parcel be poorly packed. If that was the case the transporter would never have picked it up" I have replied with " DHL cannot fall on the "should of complained to the driver" as the driver made no attempt to deliver it to me personally. It was dropped off at reception and I was called up to collect it after it had been signed for. DHL cannot make an assumption of the structural integrity of parcel when they don't know the strength of the part inside it. Ive dealt with shipping company's for years and they never deny a pickup unless it looks like its going to fall out of the box or its not wrapped at all. As mentioned I emailed you guys the moment I got the damaged goods and did the right thing by taking photos prior to opening it.. " We kept going backwards and forwards like this last night and came down to forwarding my email trail with DHL Aus to S-Mann to forward to DHL denmark. DHL are still not budging.. Claim denied. Now the bottom line really is this.. If this part was correctly packaged as per their previous parcels, it would not be damaged. I also made every effort to report the damage instantly, follow up on it and go through reasonable avenues. You would think that such a large company would see reason in this claim and offer a good will replacement to keep future business. Nope. So far i'm left with a damaged trim when all I did was press the purchase button. Thankfully I paid through paypal and have since lodged a claim with them now. But the worrying fact is that I had to go to that length over 100USD inc freight. Basically means that any purchase through them comes with a risk of being stuck with damaged goods. I have since emailed the owner of S-Mann and yet to receive a reply. I must however commend their employee Andrew for his help, sereneness and empathy over this matter and he appears to be genuinely concerned with the outcome. However his excellent cust service skills are being let down by there other department. I will update how I go with this but so far its not looking very good, which is disappointing because i've had a good run with them until now. Ive always given back to them as well. When they do a good job at delivering my parts or packaging them I take the time to write to them and tell them. If this is how a damage claim is handled over 100USD imagine how a claim is handled over 1000USD. Too afraid to order bumpers from them now.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3455_0):
I recently ordered a part from them that their site said would be in stock in 5 business days and had to cancel the order 5 weeks later......part never showed up.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3455_1):
That sucks that you have to eat the loss because someone at DHL and / or Scheimdman was having a bad day. Hope this eventually works out in your favor.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3455_10):
That's why it's always better to pay with a credit card. Paypal seems to have a bunch of morons working for them who consistently settle a dispute in the opposite direction from any sane person. I've never had an issue with the few credit card purchases that I've disputed which has led me to use Paypal for a very limited number of transactions, mostly to trusted sources only.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3455_11):
such a shame, they have a pretty extensive catalog with solid pricing. Use to be their US distributor but after the exact same thing happened with 5 e30 m3 evo rear spoilers dropped as their US supplier. Their position was, send it back... It wasn't like they were damaged washers, it would have costed so much to ship them back, not only did we loose a lot of money but also lost face with customer that had been waiting for them.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3455_3):
It does not look good for you. Your co-worker accepted a damaged package without notifying the driver with written proof. From DHL perspective, the package could be damaged after the delivery and they should not be held responsible. I have ordered items that the package was fine, but the items broke inside the package. The company promptly replaced the item with no question asked. Schmiedman should honor your claim if they want to continue with their business without any negative feedback.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3455_4):
I ordered shocks from them although the shocks were good the shipping was shit.. Aren't there many many Schmiedmann locations around the continent... You should talk to the head owner and tell him you have been a consistent customer and do not appreciate the way this is being handled.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3455_5):
so just to update on this; I never received a reply from the owner regarding this issue Paypal approved my claim and issued me a notice to return the part to get a refund. That's been done now. I put it back in their packaging and sent it back. All has tracking so paypal just need to see it was signed for and I will get my money back.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3455_8):
Another shipping issue...different company. I ordered a 35 ounce container of Speed Shine from Griot's...I received a soggy package USPS overpacked in a plastic bag. When I opened the box I found the spray head has snapped off. I called Griot's customer service and they immediately sent me a replacement no questions asked, without needing any photo documentation. I did send them an email with photos showing what happened, because Iremember they used to send out their liquid products with a flat cap and foil seal, with the spray head packed separately. I got an appreciative email back, explaining they now send them with the spray heads attached because of the volume of sales to resellers like Advance Auto, Pep Boys, and the like. They recognize the potential for leakage and are looking for a solution. I got my second bottle today, this one arrived intact.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3455_9):
I don't know whats wrong with these guys but get this. Paypal said they are going in my favor and requested me to send back the damaged part with tracking. Which I did and it was signed for and received by schmiedmann. @ my cost of $30. Paypal confirmed delivery and issued me with a refund.. The moment paypal refunded me the money which was pretty much straight away. Schmiedmann then disputed the refund with paypal and it was subject to investigation.. However my end showed it was done and dusted and closed off with a letter saying I won the dispute. Paypal haven't emailed me at all, but I rechecked the progress today online and had to bring up the closed claims.. "Status Upon further review of this case, we have granted the seller's appeal. The seller may contact you to request that you return the refund that was previously issued to you." WHAT!.. so schmiedmann got their damaged part back and still want their money. I currently have an outstanding order in with schmiedmann, so I am expecting the worst now. (also paid with paypal) I am expecting either; - they will accept they lost and fill my next order - they will ask for their money in an email and hold my parts ransom - they will just send me my damaged part back and not send anything else. I suspect this is going to get messy. I really don't understand what the hell their problem is. The worst experience online ive ever had.