QUESTION ID: 3262

QUESTION:
Sorry if I couldn't word it better. I have photobucket right now but when I try to upload something it just says, "Upload Failed" or "Invalid File". I have a TON of photos and I want to start to make a Project thread but I cant get the photos to upload. Any suggestions? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 3262_0):
What are the file extensions are the images? I use Flickr if I want to keep the image, Tinypic.com if I don't care enough to have it on my Flickr page.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3262_1):
People seem to like Flickr here, but I've always used Photobucket and I've never had an issue with anything. What type of file extensions are you trying to upload?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3262_11):
Flickr and imgur. Photobucket is trash, don't want to pay money once 200 people look at my picture or whatever. Glad this is the way now, two years ago I was pulling teeth trying to get people to use flickr

ANSWER 4 (id: 3262_12):
I have all my pictures in a public folder on my DropBox. Then just copy and paste the links. Only thing is you have to have your pictures re-sized, but I just use a Windows PowerTool to re-size everything. Just right click and re-size.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3262_5):
Originally posted by ST1G because it's annoying viewing photos like that. And if you're posting on multiple forums, you would have to upload them twice. I use photobucket, but only because I don't feel like transferring everything to flickr.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3262_7):
Originally posted by TurboJake I use both Flickr and Photobucket. Flickr for good pictures. Photobucket for parts I'm selling. I just have two flickr accounts.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3262_8):
Originally posted by ST1G Flickr Originally posted by ELVA164 Flickr Originally posted by lambo Flickr Originally posted by Cabriolet Flickr Originally posted by rturbo 930 flickr Originally posted by TurboJake Flickr Originally posted by ST1G flickr Any questions?

ANSWER 8 (id: 3262_9):
The address bar of the image/ images says .png which R3V accepts. I think im going to try flickr and try posting some pictures. Thanks for all the help guys.