QUESTION ID: 3213

QUESTION:
Hey guys, I've found some wheels on ebay.de that I'd like to purchase but the seller(s) are not willing to ship. I'm looking for someone in Germany that would be willing to pick up the wheels and ship them to Canada, and I'll compensate for the time/effort. Any help or referrals are appreciated. Thanks everyone! p.s. if anyone has some 5x120 15x7 acs type 1 locally they would sell, hit me up!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3213_1):
Originally posted by nando Talk to Levent at gutenparts.. he may be able to help. I did contact him about 6 months ago asking the same thing but he wasn't able to help at the time. Maybe I'll try again. Thanks for the suggestion.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3213_3):
Is it just the cost is why he's not willing? I'd try to see if he can get you an estimate to dro them off at one of those Pack and Ship places (can't remember the name of the German specific places..) With the current exchange rate, shipping wheels from Europe to the US is cheaper then shipping them down to LA. I've had a few sets of wheels shipped from Poland/UK/Germany..etc. for around $150-$300 depending on weight.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3213_4):
Originally posted by djjerme Is it just the cost is why he's not willing? I'd try to see if he can get you an estimate to dro them off at one of those Pack and Ship places (can't remember the name of the German specific places..) With the current exchange rate, shipping wheels from Europe to the US is cheaper then shipping them down to LA. I've had a few sets of wheels shipped from Poland/UK/Germany..etc. for around $150-$300 depending on weight. I really don't know, he's willing to ship within Europe, just not overseas...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3213_5):
Shoot, it's probably cheaper to ship overseas for him. I can look and see what service was used for the Hartge wheels I bought earlier this month. IT literally took 2 days to get to Oregon from Poland, and was less than $200 for shipping.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3213_8):
Originally posted by Todd Black 88 If you are the ixguido from bcbimmers, get in contact with Ben(cacciatorie)sp? He has German contacts and brings stuff in all the time. Yup thats me! I've purchased through Ben before but forgotten about him this time. I'll give him a try, thanks Todd!