QUESTION ID: 757

QUESTION:
- Here is the easiest way that I've found to do this: You would normally do this on the underside of the car, but I'm doing this outside the car so I can actually take pictures. Harbor Freight item 96572 is what you will need. Now on sale! This is the position you want to start the tool in. Place the handle directly on top of the shift carrier. Close-up of the starting position. Place the tip of the pick in the corner of the groove. Pull the handle straight back from here. This is the final position after you've pulled the pick straight back. It should unlatch the clip so you can undo the rest with your hand. This is how it looks when you do it. Booyah! :alright

ANSWER 1 (id: 757_10):
I seriously could not get the bitch clip with screw drivers, I went at it for four hours straight until I said fuck it and bought this tool. After I came back, I got it done in 2 minutes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 757_2):
Why does everybody have so much trouble with that clip? Stubby flathead screw driver... place it under the clip on the top and push down to pop it up. 2min

ANSWER 3 (id: 757_4):
Originally posted by KenC Why does everybody have so much trouble with that clip? Stubby flathead screw driver... place it under the clip on the top and push down to pop it up. 2min Its not that easy, specially when you're under the car. Sometimes even with a lift its not the easiest to remove. Its just one of those hard to reach tight places. Plus the way the clip was design doesn't leverage ease at all. You'll know about this if you ever install a new tranny or an ssk.

ANSWER 4 (id: 757_5):
Originally posted by J0nnyr0ck3t Its not that easy, specially when you're under the car. Sometimes even with a lift its not the easiest to remove. Its just one of those hard to reach tight places. Plus the way the clip was design doesn't leverage ease at all. You'll know about this if you ever install a new tranny or an ssk. I've removed and installed my transmission at least four times, and put a UUC ssk in recently. Stubby screwdriver, just pop it up. I don't know, maybe I just have skinny hands.

ANSWER 5 (id: 757_7):
bizzzz clip Originally posted by KenC Why does everybody have so much trouble with that clip? Stubby flathead screw driver... place it under the clip on the top and push down to pop it up. 2min Consider yourself Lucky.... LOL you remind me of that guy on the burger king commercial small hands big whopper.... anyway.... this is what I use... Its a paint can opener, I bent mine a litle for leverage and the small lip helps pop it up from the pasenger side of the transmission.

ANSWER 6 (id: 757_8):
Thanks for the nicely done diy guide. If I ever this again on an e30 I'll pick up the harbor freight tool. For those of you that can get it out in a 2 minutes with a screwdriver I wonder if you somehow have more space up there. Even if I loosen the tranny support brace I can barely fit a finger between the clip and the transmission tunnel. None of the handles for my screwdrivers will fit up there. If I use a screwdriver without a handle and lift the clip up from the front of the car the transmission tunnel still gets in the way and the damn thing won't come off. In the end I managed to get a little screwdriver in from the back side and got it to pop off. PS I installed a ssk in my e46 a few years ago and it was a piece of cake.

ANSWER 7 (id: 757_9):
I haven't had a problem using a screwdriver either. I do have relatively skinny hands so that could be it. Regardless, great write up and nice touch with the gif!