QUESTION ID: 364

QUESTION:
i recently purchased an 87 325e and i have a few dollars to play around with. i was wondering what you guys think i should invest my first couple grand into. I have the basics completed; tucked bumbers, cool air intake, and the small things like that. I would like 325i heads and what not but i have to wait to find one first. I was wondering if anyone could give me advice on suspension for me car as im not quite sure what i want. thanks in advance -Mitch

ANSWER 1 (id: 364_1):
any suggestions on a place where i should purchase these? also can someone tell me how i can put a nicer bumper on the pre 88 e30s? I have heard its alot more difficult then the e30s that were made since 88'. I have my bumbers tucked but i would like a lip or something so that when i put the new suspension in the front looks a little lower then what it will not with just the bumpers tucked. Sorry if this is a stupid question but ive only been learing about these cars for the past few weeks and its all still blurry to me. thanks in advance -Mitch

ANSWER 2 (id: 364_2):
The later bumpers will mount up, the front is the easier of the two the rear is the harder since you have to trim stuff and so forth. I just got lazy and threw on an air dam.

ANSWER 3 (id: 364_3):
For the front bumper you can either get a "cow-dam" front spoiler from a 325es or 325is which will improve the look, but most people around here convert to the 89-91 style plastic bumpers and ditch their "diving board" bumpers. Procdure a) In the front you just have to saw off the tow hooks and the bumper mounts on. You will need to buy an 89+ front bumper AND an 88 or later front valence. b) In the backyou have to cut off the plastic bumper with a dremal tool since it juts too far into the wheel well on 84-87 cars, and you need to buy and fit a rear apron since otherwise it will look real funny. See these pages for the conversion: http://www.r3vlimited.com/Tech/bumper1.htm http://www.r3vlimited.com/Tech/bumper2.htm http://www.r3vlimited.com/Tech/bumper3.htm My advice is: 1. do the front bumper before you tackle the rear bumper. 2. the *BEST* mod for an 'e' (the best money I ever spent) is to get a chip. You put the chip into your ECU which is above your glove box. I drove around for 19 years chipless with a gutless response when driving on the highway (the eta is fine in the city at low revs, no complaints there). Now the thing actually comes to life on the highway and the engine actually makes a "roar" sound I still can't believe my ears.

ANSWER 4 (id: 364_4):
I have an '87 e, too. I tucked the rear, but I kinda like the "bench seat" on the front, especially with the es airdam. I'd rather spend my money on the car's suspension, or my motorcycle, than source and modify plastic bumpers. if i were you, and had a lot of money to put in my car, i'd do: chip, replace all bushings, etc, sport shocks and springs, stock sport seats, maybe a few cosmetic mods, and spend the rest on tires and autocrossing. i have an extra "es" front airdam sitting around if you want it. $100 with mounting stuff. PM me for details.