QUESTION ID: 858

QUESTION:
Yuuup as the tittle states, I'm looking for an e34 oil pan for low clearance. I know there's gotta someone holding out with one of those from the old arc asylum batch. Please PM me, I want to drive my car again but I can't continue to bust oil pans regularly.

ANSWER 1 (id: 858_0):
I'm surprised no one has started up production on something like this. The same thing is needed for low M42s, and someone in Europe was making low profile steel ones but they're hard to find, usually on German eBay. There was a guy on here a couple years ago (if I remember correctly) that was gauging interest on a some sort of welded metal pan but everyone shot him down. I feel like there's definitely a demand now that pans are a little harder to come by, ESPECIALLY if it's designed to not stick down so far.

ANSWER 2 (id: 858_5):
We've been making the oil pans for our N52 swaps because nothing else exists, I'm so surprised this hasn't happened for M5X and S5X swaps.... These are internally baffled with Cosworth flaps as well.

ANSWER 3 (id: 858_6):
Originally posted by hoveringuy We've been making the oil pans for our N52 swaps because nothing else exists, I'm so surprised this hasn't happened for M5X and S5X swaps.... These are internally baffled with Cosworth flaps I ended up paying the piper for a modified e34 m50 pan and pick up. Waited quite a bit of time too, so I'm raising my car as well to prevent future issues.

ANSWER 4 (id: 858_8):
Originally posted by amcp I'd totally be in for a modified m/s52 pans to reduce the chance of cracking them. I've paid for a few cracked replacements, 3 years consecutively at an average cost of $600 after all was said and done. Basically a yearly and very expensive oil change. I don't have the time to get away from paying for labor any more and I'm hurting thinking about how much I could have saved, to use towards my paint job instead of oil pan replacements. But.... you live and learn when you're riding low

ANSWER 5 (id: 858_9):
I have a pile of e36 pans, but nothing am out of e34 pans. Toyed with the idea and have the equipment to do these. Anyone have a busted up e34 pan they are willing to donate to the cause?