QUESTION ID: 1511

QUESTION:
Hey Guys! Finished up my subframe bushing replacement and the ix rear end feels great! However my speedo is not working now. Worked fine before I did the bushings so I’m assuming I either disturbed the wiring to the speed sensor in the diff or the sensor itself is bad? I had the diff out when I did the subframe bushing and I had the diff bushing replaced by a local shop since I don’t have a press. I gave the shop the diff cover with the sensor still bolted in it and am wondering if they could have damaged the sensor when they did the bushing? I checked the wires to the sensor and they look good with no obvious breaks. Is there a way to check the sensor with a multimeter before I just replace it? Thanks!! Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1511_2):
Originally posted by Gregs///M The wires in the diff area are super known to become brittle and crack. Most likely that is your issue. I think you are correct. I tested the sensor with a multimeter after googling a bit and looks like its ok. Any idea on part numbers for the female plugs that plug into the sensor? Figure I will cut off the wires to the sensor as far up as I can and then replace the wires and the female plugs.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1511_3):
Originally posted by E30andy I think you are correct. I tested the sensor with a multimeter after googling a bit and looks like its ok. Any idea on part numbers for the female plugs that plug into the sensor? Figure I will cut off the wires to the sensor as far up as I can and then replace the wires and the female plugs. I dont know the PN but you can find them on realoem.com. Although its probably easier to just snip a used one from a junked car, im sure most of the vintage BMW cars use the same connector or you may be able to solder some fresh wires on it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1511_4):
Originally posted by E30andy I think you are correct. I tested the sensor with a multimeter after googling a bit and looks like its ok. Any idea on part numbers for the female plugs that plug into the sensor? Figure I will cut off the wires to the sensor as far up as I can and then replace the wires and the female plugs. The replacement 90-degree connector is 61130007445