QUESTION ID: 2412

QUESTION:
Car is at the shop getting repainted. while I was at it, I wanted to replace ALL the weatherstrips from doors, windows, windshield and sunroof. ECS has been my go-to site since theyre easier to deal with but right now their prices are not so good. I dont have the bandwidth to individually shop for the parts. Is there a good website (or local to Socal) you guys can to get this all done asap Any useful info appreciated

ANSWER 1 (id: 2412_0):
Just hit up Blunttech and tell them what you need. He does all the legwork and sends you prices. Even easier than a website. ECS is run by a corporate giant. Sure you may spend 1% more somewhere else, but you're supporting the enthusiast community. If you want "cheapest prices online" it's going to vary part to part, place to place. Thus, after shipping it's likely not worth spending 10hrs finding the lowest prices, but rather just using a source you trust and purchasing everything you need through them. ECS may be less on a door seal, whereas FCP may be less on a windshield trim, etc. For what you need, Blunt sounds like your best option.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2412_1):
I'm located in socal and have access to all parts through my shop PM what you need and I'll price you out Rear sunroof seals are difficult to find right now, Uro makes one, but have not had any first hand experience w their seals. Just a head up. I recently purchased both pieces of my roof seal from BMW, still waiting on the rear section

ANSWER 3 (id: 2412_3):
Originally posted by cheffy30 pelican parts is down there. they've done right by me several times. fwiw. sent from hell using Tapatalk Thought Pelican was part of whoever owns ECS now. In any case, getbmwparts is good for just OE stuff, and their prices are typically fine, but if bandwidth is an issue using a vendor like BT would be smart.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2412_6):
Thank you for the responses. I am all about supporting local businesses. I spend a bit more money to buy from BMA Parts in Glendale than online. Lately availability is getting to be an issue Thanks again

ANSWER 5 (id: 2412_7):
I like FCP Euro best. They're somewhat local to me so even economy shipping is essentially 1-2 days, and their prices are pretty good mostly, especially considering EVERY part comes with a lifetime warranty. I've taken advantage of that warranty and they make it easy to exchange parts. Plus (pre-covid) they hosted several cars and coffee events at their HQ which was really neat. I've also never had a bad experience with their customer service department either, that speaks volumes to me. Sent from my moto g(6) using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 2412_8):
This company in Latvia seems to have many European parts. And the prices are cheaper than on Schmiedmann[/B]. https://cars245.com - it's the eBay seller oe245 https://www.ebay.com/usr/oe245 I mean all kinds of LEMFÖRDER, Bosch, Febi, Hella parts.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2412_9):
Never underestimate https://www.wallothnesch.com/en/ for things otherwise expendium or dealeritis. Remember, we're over 30 now, and time to nut up- these cars are antiques in most states. But try Blunt first. Steve might include ice cream with your order... t