QUESTION ID: 123

QUESTION:
So like my title says my obc and speedometer turn off at the same time. It usually works fine when I start the car but after like 10-15mins of driving I'll notice if the obc flickers on and off the speedo will bounce around and when the obc light turns off the speedo will completely die. I tried researching it but only found one thread like mine but no resolution. Every other Guage works just not my speedo and obc. My car is a 1986 eta with a 13 button obcif it matters. I looked at the diff wire and it was good. I don't know where to look or were to start. Any suggestions?

ANSWER 1 (id: 123_1):
the speedo sends its signal to the obc via the wire that plugs into the green plug on the back of the cluster.. maybe something is shorting out in the obc? Try disconnecting the obc and see if it happens again. Or see if there is a fuse which powers the obc only and pull that

ANSWER 2 (id: 123_11):
Oh no.. Do they share the same power source? Grab a wiring diagram But first try swapping clusters? It's a long shot but how are your battery and alternator?

ANSWER 3 (id: 123_3):
Replace fuse 10, 12 and 21. They have common power, the fuses. They are also connected via signal wires but the signal path will not affect the OBC turning on and off. Old corroded, oxidized fuses will. Just replace with new 7.5A fuses.

ANSWER 4 (id: 123_5):
Try banging on the dash right in the middle. I'm having the same problem and that makes things turn on again. I have a non-functioning OBC that needs to be changed. I took my cluster out and tightened the two nuts and checked the big ground but no fix. I'm going to examine the solder joints next. I do notice my Check light comes on anytime I turn on anything electrical. I will try cleaning other grounds to see if that helps.

ANSWER 5 (id: 123_6):
Been banging on the dash but no effect. I don't think it's the batteries because I bought a refurbished batteries from gregs///M. Turns on and off random. I'll put it another set of new 7.5 fuses on the 3 fuses that Greg said to change. The nuts on the back were tightened and nothing.