QUESTION ID: 1532

QUESTION:
Howdy. Well, after a three year slumber (too many cars...at least now I am down to 3) my iX was rudely awakened with a fresh battery and a shtload of other work.... while you're in there syndrome. 214k Northeast car, its a rough life up here. I started with a blown steering rack and shredded lollypops. I will save the details but this obviously involved dropping the subframe, magically suspending the engine in thin air, and everything else associated with front suspension, and the fuel lines, and the ignition system, and the... Garagistic iX DSSR with the works including z3 short shifter (car had the z3 shifter when I bought it). Previous to this install all gears shifted precisely with the short sifter but the bushings were thrashed so the lever itself was very sloppy. I used this thread as motivation: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...le-broke/page2 And triple checked the orientation of the shifter itself, seems to be correct. At first I thought maybe I installed it backwards, Bentley manual and the photo in this thread above confirms I believe it is in there with the correct orientation. Seems like I am not fully engaging 2nd and 4th. Does not pop out under load, difficult to engage though, particularly 2nd. 1, 3, 5 feel like shredding the Nürburgring in a DTM E30 M3 circa 1990 (ok, ok dogleg in the M3s, semantics really...), and no problem finding R. 2 and 4 feel like shoving a stick into a bucket of marbles. Thoughts? Someone tell me I have to drop the subframe, transmission and get all the way back in there... so I just go do it. Thanks for any input or experience here Final systems check prior to the maiden voyage last night after 3 years parked up: all systems go and some humorous photos of the shifter swap:

ANSWER 1 (id: 1532_1):
09/2016 205,222 with Redline MTL so 4 years and approximately 9k miles There is a rear main seal weep, very slow. I do not think it is low but can top it up

ANSWER 2 (id: 1532_2):
Try changing it completely and running through the gears after it's been filled. 4 years is too long even though it's only been 9k miles actually driven. That's about where my ideas run out. Even though it worked fine before, what is in there now isn't what was happening before the geometry has been corrected of imagine and maybe a slopp shifter caused odd wear on the syncros. These are all guesses though.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1532_3):
This is the set up on my 89 ix installed by the previous owner so I'm not sure how close it is to what you just installed: -AKG race shifter -Garagistic IX-specific dual sheer selector rod But let me tell you it is a SHORT shifter! Like DTM race car short! Very stiff and hard to shift but extremely precise. Has not loosened up at all over the 3 years I have been driving the car. I would not replicate it on any other ix I own.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1532_4):
I also got a Z3 shifter and delring bushing on my iX Touring, not using a DSSR. I can't imagine it makes much of a difference when everything else is new/fresh/tight. Is there enough clearance for the DSSR - transfercase?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1532_5):
Took a longer Christmas Day ride to get everything nice and warm. One item of note is that rev matching definitely helps locate 2 and 4, at low speeds it is very difficult downshift into 2nd, nearly impossible without grinding. Dang 1,3,5 are great fun. iX ran flawlessly otherwise in a morning of mixed precipitation, and salt caked roads. Back in its element, one might say. Originally posted by D.Martijn I also got a Z3 shifter and delring bushing on my iX Touring, not using a DSSR. I can't imagine it makes much of a difference when everything else is new/fresh/tight. Is there enough clearance for the DSSR - transfercase? Great point I will attempt to check this out.. hopefully I will be able to see in from somewhere! Originally posted by jeenyus Try changing it completely and running through the gears after it's been filled. 4 years is too long even though it's only been 9k miles actually driven. That's about where my ideas run out. Even though it worked fine before, what is in there now isn't what was happening before the geometry has been corrected of imagine and maybe a slopp shifter caused odd wear on the syncros. These are all guesses though. Worth a try to change/flush the fluid for sure, thanks. The DSSR paired with a centered selector rod joint vs. the original offset joint are the substantial changes, along with the delrin bushings. The shifter cup was in the worst shape

ANSWER 6 (id: 1532_6):
One thing that is bugging me... I failed to measure the DSSR length compared to the stock selector rod (to borrow a phrase from Mr. Red Forman... dumbass). This was on my list to do prior to confirm fitment, but slipped my mind as I went for the install So, the 2 and 4 gear selection are both "down" toward the rear of the car obviously, with in turn becomes a "push" of the selector shaft into the transmission. If the DSSR was too short (ie. not shipped to me as requested iX specific) this could cause the selector shaft to not be completely doing its job? I do not know enough about the inner workings of transmissions to be even remotely knowledgable here. What I do know is the iX selector rod is 3mm longer than the RWD E30s... so this could be my issue. Getrag gurus needed. Also awaiting the mythical Mr. iX to appear with wisdom ​ At this point I need to go in there and measure to put this theory to the test. Anyone want to get a pool going on the length of my installed DSSR? $5 buy in

ANSWER 7 (id: 1532_7):
Isn't the length just for the position of the shifter knob? Shorter/longer DSSR will only "rotate" the shifter more forward or backwards. I don't think it's influencing the shifting motion of the gearbox.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1532_8):
Long shot, but is your shifter boot preventing full travel of the shifter? I had it happen once with a leather boot - leather had shrunk, preventing shifting.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1532_9):
Originally posted by packratbimmer Long shot, but is your shifter boot preventing full travel of the shifter? I had it happen once with a leather boot - leather had shrunk, preventing shifting. Thanks, it was an issue with no boot or even console during an initial shakedown lap around the block.. had a hole straight through to the road at that time, the rubber boot wasn't even on. It does feel as though something is preventing full travel. Bleeding clutch, brakes, and swapping in fresh MTL this weekend, as well as checking clearances that I am able to. We'll see if fluids and a good clutch bleed free anything up internally EDIT: this solved the issue described 98%. Substantial brake and clutch slave bleed with fresh DOT 4 and new Redline MTL. Sometimes the simple solution is... the solution! 2 and 4 now felling a lot like1,3,5. Back in action for winter