QUESTION ID: 2535

QUESTION:
Hi guys, would love some input if anyone can help. Im new here and have tried scouring ther forums for more up to date input. Im in Vancouver Canada and I have a 1990 325i convertible (with metal bumpers, diving boards) and have purchased the new plastic (late) bumpers to convert it. Which leaves me with a big empty abyss under the new rear plastic bumper. I know of some of my options and was wondering if there are any other options im missing... 1.chop up a late model donor and custom fit the apron (Love this look the best, but it probably will be the most difficult to do labor wise) 2. Mtech 2 lower apron. Im in Vancouver Canada and the closest place i so far have been able to find it is from dtm fibreworks in California. Does anyone know of any Canadian companies that make or sell it? (Shipping is $250 for a $245 part!!) 3. All other replica aprons from dtm fibreworks (ACS, hartge, etc...). Not the biggest fan of the look of the other options. 4. Try to find a used apron in the classifieds (no luck yet with anything i like) I read that there used to be a company in Ontario Canada (eurostyle) that used to make the mtech2 apron, but i believe they don't anymore or out of business. If anyone has any input, or leads of where to purchase these type of aprons in Canada that would be soooo appreciated! Thanks in advance!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2535_1):
The options you've listed pretty much cover it. I'm unaware of any other replica mt2 makers. Finding a rear apron for diving board cars is notoriously difficult so good luck scoring anything. If it was me I'd scour the internet and salvage yards for a late model rear apron to harvest. More work but I think it's the best look, and I think it makes mounting the rear bumper easier? Probably a couple hundred for a good apron then I'd guess a full day at a body shop - cut, fit, and weld the new one on in the morning and after lunch it's in the paint booth.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2535_2):
Originally posted by E30 Wagen The options you've listed pretty much cover it. I'm unaware of any other replica mt2 makers. Finding a rear apron for diving board cars is notoriously difficult so good luck scoring anything. If it was me I'd scour the internet and salvage yards for a late model rear apron to harvest. More work but I think it's the best look, and I think it makes mounting the rear bumper easier? Probably a couple hundred for a good apron then I'd guess a full day at a body shop - cut, fit, and weld the new one on in the morning and after lunch it's in the paint booth. Yes, imo i think it's the best looking option too. Has no one out there made a fiberglass version that would just bolt on to the bottom of the rear bumper?