QUESTION ID: 403

QUESTION:
I know there are numerous threads, especially the pinned one on types of susp people are running, but none of which, seems to really explain the performance value. So thats what i am here to ask, what in your guys's opinions do you think is the best setup for occasional(every 4 months or so), and almost everyday canyon running. What setup would you recommend(meaning springs/shocks/sways)? thanks -Dan please dont chew me out if you have answered this 40000000 times, i looked back a few pages, but couldnt find anything on how the actual ride felt, and how much the handling improved. I was looking into the Konicoilovers, and the IE coilovers, and the HR coilovers, but i unno which one would be best. so i thought id ask some of you that are actually using those setups.

ANSWER 1 (id: 403_0):
Dan- If you don't have serious plans to track your car (perhaps a few high performance track school per year), then you can't go wrong with Bilstein Sport shocks. The Bilstein HDs (heavy duty) are a standard length shock while the sport is shorter....thus lowering your ride height. Reason I suggested these is that its a well proven product that suits most applications very well. You could probably find something else for a little less. But like the saying goes: "you get what you pay for." As for springs....so many choices. I've been running on H&R Sport springs for a few years now and have no complaints to report. Others have had good success with Eibach springs (such as their Pro Kit). There are others out there as well. Its a matter of doing some digging and throwing out some questions. I know the pages and pages of threads may seem more troublesome than they are worth.....but if you get very specific with your searches (such as brand names), you can filter out a lot of BS. Jon

ANSWER 2 (id: 403_1):
I have plans of tracking my car atleast once every 2-4 months. ive been to 1 already, and cant wait for the next one. Hmm. thanks for the input though, the HR springs will definetly be taken into consideration. thanks.

ANSWER 3 (id: 403_12):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by Spiff325iS IE stage 3 springs, Koni adj shocks, 25/22 IE sways. My back hurst just thinking about it... Add some Derelin bushings all around while you're at it. Uhh that doens't sound that bad. My entire suspension, when finished, will be SOLID mounted. Yea, it is a street car and daily driver.

ANSWER 4 (id: 403_2):
i have koni's / h&r sports and it is a pretty soft setup. it doesnt have any more body roll than you can see in my sig (which is with stock sways) but it will leave you wanting more, performance wise, when your on the track.

ANSWER 5 (id: 403_3):
Originally posted by Jon325i Dan- The Bilstein HDs (heavy duty) are a standard length shock while the sport is shorter....thus lowering your ride height. Jon The shorter rod doesn't change the ride height. It just makes sure the piston doesn't run out of travel when your lowering springs are fully compressed! I was on H&R OE Sports and Boge Turbo shocks. Now on Pro-Kit springs and Koni Sport Adjustables. The ride is "busy" but not harsh. It feels and looks sporty, but isn't crashy. The Konis have a lot to do with it. The fronts are 80% firm for directional stability and the rears are at full soft for better traction. The car feel like it's on rails and laughs at crosswinds! For long free way trips I run the fronts full soft and the ride quiets down quite a bit. A female friend who rides in the car often says she prefers it firm. The ride, that is!!!! :P Want more control but a nice ride, go with Bilsteins or Konis and stock springs. Eibachs are nice and the car looks great. H&R Sports might be a tiny bit firmer, but do not lower quite as much. Eibach's design doesn't use dead coils like H&R does, so they might resist corrosion better. My OE Sports were beginning to rust where the coils constantly rubbed. The Konis cost more than the Bilsteins, but I LOVE the adjustability. That's my suspension ramble for today.

ANSWER 6 (id: 403_4):
Originally posted by Jon325i Dan- If you don't have serious plans to track your car (perhaps a few high performance track school per year), then you can't go wrong with Bilstein Sport shocks. The Bilstein HDs (heavy duty) are a standard length shock while the sport is shorter....thus lowering your ride height. Reason I suggested these is that its a well proven product that suits most applications very well. You could probably find something else for a little less. But like the saying goes: "you get what you pay for." As for springs....so many choices. I've been running on H&R Sport springs for a few years now and have no complaints to report. Others have had good success with Eibach springs (such as their Pro Kit). There are others out there as well. Its a matter of doing some digging and throwing out some questions. I know the pages and pages of threads may seem more troublesome than they are worth.....but if you get very specific with your searches (such as brand names), you can filter out a lot of BS. Jon I'll second the H&R sports/Bilstein sports combo. It's completely liveable on the street, and a pretty decent performer on track. -Charlie

ANSWER 7 (id: 403_5):
I have bilsteins with eibach springs and it's a nice combo for street use and occasional tracking, but I think the springs give me a little too much roll when I auto-x. I'm getting ready to replace them with IE stage 3 springs. Since it's not my dialy driver the lower and stiffer ride won't bother me that much.

ANSWER 8 (id: 403_6):
then, with that in mind. What would you recommend if i didnt want a really good street ride, meaning, id ont mind if its hard or if i lose a lot of comfort, what would you reccommend with that in consideration? I was thinking this: IE stage 3 springs, Koni adj shocks, 25/22 IE sways.

ANSWER 9 (id: 403_7):
Originally posted by Spiff325iS IE stage 3 springs, Koni adj shocks, 25/22 IE sways. My back hurst just thinking about it... Add some Derelin bushings all around while you're at it.

ANSWER 10 (id: 403_8):
Originally posted by Spiff325iS then, with that in mind. What would you recommend if i didnt want a really good street ride, meaning, id ont mind if its hard or if i lose a lot of comfort, what would you reccommend with that in consideration? I can't comment on the sways, but that spring & shock combo should work pretty good for you. Keep in mind the IE's drop the car more, around 2", than the others so make sure you will have clearance.

ANSWER 11 (id: 403_9):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat My back hurst just thinking about it... It's less comfortable in any GC equipped car on here. At least the IE's are progressive.