QUESTION ID: 920

QUESTION:
I know most of you have experience with the E30 platform but I am hoping you will be able to help. I have an S52 swapped into my 83' E21 and it turns over with out an issue. But I'm not getting any fuel. I'm having a hard time figuring out how the fuel relay is wired on the E36 harness. I have fully removed the ECU that was controlling the the M10 motor and I am assuming that is my issue. Any advice would be grate. Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 920_0):
Find the E36 fuel pump relay, and see if it's providing power. If you don't have it, the ETK is at www.wedophones.com The it's just a matter of finding the E21 wire that goes back... What are you using for a pump? The E21 never had a proper EFI pump... and I forget if it used a low- pressure intank pump in 83. t

ANSWER 2 (id: 920_1):
Originally posted by TobyB Find the E36 fuel pump relay, and see if it's providing power. If you don't have it, the ETK is at www.wedophones.com The it's just a matter of finding the E21 wire that goes back... What are you using for a pump? The E21 never had a proper EFI pump... and I forget if it used a low- pressure intank pump in 83. t Sorry on the delay been busy at work. But I had sometime to do some testing today. I can provide power to the fuel pump from the relay with a power probe and they turn on, but the relay is not being triggered when the key is turned. This made me think the ecu is might not be turning on. So I looked to see if I was getting a check engine light from so I looked for continuity between ground and the gray wire on the smallest connector. When I turn the ecu on I get a reading on .070. I am not 100% sure on the specs but this does not seam right. I do have power to the green wires on the relay on the passengers side near power block when key is on. this is what I used as a guide for the E21 wiring the wiring I used for the E36 side of the harness Here is my plug and play harness I have created.

ANSWER 3 (id: 920_2):
Is there any OBC "Code" on the e21? That might trigger the ignition not to turn on the FB. I had that issue on my '92 e30. ETM is your friend- I'd test the stock wires on the e21 ignition and see what is triggering what. Here is my ODB2 S52 wiring...might help you out...

ANSWER 4 (id: 920_4):
Originally posted by pofo Thank issue solved. Ground connection to body was not secured properly As also being a member of the VW MK1 community- we have a saying that I use all the time.... "What does Coffee, Marriages and Cars have in common?...They all start with GOOD GROUNDS" :)