QUESTION ID: 1405

QUESTION:
Looking to get new springs and want to know if theres a real difference between the models. I see the vert springs don't lower the rear as much. Not sure if I should get the vert specific springs or go with the sport or race springs. Anyone have some input?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1405_0):
If I was you.....I'd call H&R, and when they sales guy says he has no clue, ask to get transferred to "engineering" and pick their brain. They will know if the spring rate/length is different. I have seen some verts with saggy asses, so maybe they are different.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1405_1):
Verts have lower rear arches and more weight so they are generally lower in the rear and running regular sport or race springs will lower a vert more than a sedan. When I got mine, it had Eibach springs on it which lowered the car excessively and would bottom out regularly because the rates were too soft for the ride height. I then switched to H&R Race springs which have an aggressive drop on the vert but are much stiffer than Eibachs so they work well. Adjustable rear subframe is recommended when going that low. If I wanted to raise the ride height and improved ride quality I would definitely get vert specific H&R's.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1405_2):
I have those cabrio springs on..well, my cabrio...and they are just right IMO. They are a "sport" lowering spring that are slightly different to compensate for the weight difference in the cabrio. I doubt you'd notice the difference though if you just went with regular sports. I started with Biisteins and drop hats, then switched to Konis (do not get the front cabrio koni as it is not externally adjustable) and removed the drop hats cause my mud flaps were dragging. It suits my taste and driving style perfectly.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1405_3):
I was driving these vert specific springs for a few years until a rear spring broke. It's a 1.4" drop all around so was looking to keep something similar. After looking over some older photos I can see that the rear end is tucking compared to the front end. Maybe those very h&r springs would be a better option and hopefully be better for the weight in the rear end.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1405_4):
I don't know how many people mess around with rear spring pads to slightly alter rear height? Running no spring pads or even as many as 3 on each side makes a difference and might be enough to prevent buying new springs in some cases.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1405_5):
From what I understand H&R convertible springs are the same as H&R iX springs. They are the same spring rate as H&R sport but do not lower the car as much. I found sport springs were too soft, so I ended up with H&R race. Suspension does not feel terribly stiff to me, but I do not drive on bad roads, nor is the car a daily driver. I needed to add additional spring pads in the rear to raise up the back to an acceptable level. Even with that, the car is still on the low side to be an entirely sensible every day car.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1405_6):
H&R Race springs have more of an even drop front to rear and not as much forward rake like most sport springs so the rear will appear lower than the front. I installed extra spring pads in the rear and removed one up front for a little more forward rake. The back is still low though. I might install another pad or install an adjustable rear subframe.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1405_7):
I'll probably end up going with the vert sport springs but with my st springs I used the e90 drophats and the thinnest spring pads for the front and the thickest for the rear. The car sits pretty even just the rear wheels tuck more than the front.