QUESTION ID: 2787

QUESTION:
Hey all, Thanksgiving is coming up and that means Black Friday shopping will follow. I've got some parts I'd like to get for my car. I'm wondering if anyone knows of any upcoming Black Friday deals? Thanks, Seth

ANSWER 1 (id: 2787_0):
Garagistic already has their Black Friday deals running right now. Hopefully other shops / suppliers have good deals this year too because poppa needs a whole lot of everything.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2787_11):
Originally posted by Powling Turner has a 25% off discount on Hawk brake pads right now. Thanks for the heads up! I just ordered a set of their HP street pads. Loved them on my previous Subaru's.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2787_2):
2m shift boots is offering wholesale price, and free bmw hotwheels while supplies last 25% essentially , I also have koni air fresheners and random stuff to include

ANSWER 4 (id: 2787_3):
Originally posted by Matt-B 2m shift boots is offering wholesale price, and free bmw hotwheels while supplies last 25% essentially , I also have koni air fresheners and random stuff to include BMW hot wheel - sweet! Just ordered two shift boots. Cory

ANSWER 5 (id: 2787_4):
Originally posted by Powling Garagistic already has their Black Friday deals running right now. Hopefully other shops / suppliers have good deals this year too because poppa needs a whole lot of everything. Same here, already ordered the strut bars from Garagistic.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2787_5):
ShopE30.com also offers BF Deals. Got myself some free shifter and BBS-Rim Accesoir for free. But with shipping to Germany i paid the regular price i guess... Driftshop.com has some Deals on great looking aftermarket rims. Some copy of gold BBS. Friend of mine drives Japan Racing wheels on his E46 and they even come TUV certified... (engineered)

ANSWER 7 (id: 2787_7):
Originally posted by wworm ^ ground control usually runs black friday deals So far all I've seen is the black frida deal for mustang 15% off from GC. I would love to pick up some GC spring/coil off of them this year

ANSWER 8 (id: 2787_8):
Originally posted by hakstern So far all I've seen is the black frida deal for mustang 15% off from GC. I would love to pick up some GC spring/coil off of them this year I called them last week to discuss some coilover options. They hadn't finalized all the details (or couldn't tell me), but was told there will be sales coming this week.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2787_9):
Originally posted by connorb850 I called them last week to discuss some coilover options. They hadn't finalized all the details (or couldn't tell me), but was told there will be sales coming this week. Awesome! I'll definitely keep an eye out. Thank you