QUESTION ID: 1396

QUESTION:
Aftermarket top with zip in rear window? Newbie here in Palm Beach County, FL. I'm looking for a new aftermarket replacement cloth top with a zip-in rear window. I assume BMW makes one, but it's probably crazy expensive. My car is a 1992 e30. I've checked this forum and the broader Internet and cannot find anybody offering aftermarket e30 tops with zippered windows. Does anybody have a distributor or manufacturer to suggest? I'm also looking for a good local installer in the West Palm Beach area. Thank you! JG

ANSWER 1 (id: 1396_0):
The zip in came in very late years so try searching 91-92 and see if you find one with a zipper. Robbins is a well,regarded after market top. I've had 2 by GAHH and they were ok. Seems they all unstitch at the cross bars in time...even the genuine BMW top I have now

ANSWER 2 (id: 1396_1):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars The zip in came in very late years so try searching 91-92 and see if you find one with a zipper. Robbins is a well,regarded after market top. I've had 2 by GAHH and they were ok. Seems they all unstitch at the cross bars in time...even the genuine BMW top I have now Thank you Jeff. I put a Robbins Stayfast cloth top on my old Miata and loved it. Their site only shows fixed windows for e30s. I'll give them a call and see if I can get one custom made for a reasonable price.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1396_10):
Originally posted by jgilber0 I called Robbins and EZ ON, neither makes nor are they willing to make a zipper window e30 top. I could not find other manufacturers on the web offering one. Next step is to check on $$$$ OEM BMW offerings. Has anyone else found any other options? Thank you. JG You might be able to find a sew in zippable back window and have it sewn into a new top? I was going down that route, ended up finding a buyer for my vert before I could dig further into it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1396_11):
Originally posted by jgilber0 I called Robbins and EZ ON, neither makes nor are they willing to make a zipper window e30 top. I could not find other manufacturers on the web offering one. Next step is to check on $$$$ OEM BMW offerings. Has anyone else found any other options? Thank you. JG Dammit!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1396_12):
Originally posted by Streichholzschächtelchen You might be able to find a sew in zippable back window and have it sewn into a new top? I was going down that route, ended up finding a buyer for my vert before I could dig further into it. Might work,. I'll keep you posted on what I find out.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1396_9):
I called Robbins and EZ ON, neither makes nor are they willing to make a zipper window e30 top. I could not find other manufacturers on the web offering one. Next step is to check on $$$$ OEM BMW offerings. Has anyone else found any other options? Thank you. JG