QUESTION ID: 661

QUESTION:
1991 318i - Changed the oil and upon reinstalling the drain plug, it appears that the hole in the oil pan is stripped. I have tried to remove the plug part way and clean the bolt and crush washer. It still drips. Thoughts / advice?

ANSWER 1 (id: 661_1):
Since new washers come with the filter kit one would hope. Two ways to fix it, drill and/or tap the pan for an oversized plug or replace the pan with new. Since you're clearly a novice you'll need to remove the pan to tap it so you don't end up with shavings in the engine.

ANSWER 2 (id: 661_3):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Since new washers come with the filter kit one would hope. Two ways to fix it, drill and/or tap the pan for an oversized plug or replace the pan with new. Since you're clearly a novice you'll need to remove the pan to tap it so you don't end up with shavings in the engine. You can put wheel bearing grease in between the flutes of the tap to catch the metal and just pour a quart or two with the plug off and let it clear any possible remains.

ANSWER 3 (id: 661_4):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Since new washers come with the filter kit one would hope. Two ways to fix it, drill and/or tap the pan for an oversized plug or replace the pan with new. Since you're clearly a novice you'll need to remove the pan to tap it so you don't end up with shavings in the engine. I appreciate the advice, not the comment. Its clear what you are as well.

ANSWER 4 (id: 661_5):
Originally posted by GarageBound I appreciate the advice, not the comment. Its clear what you are as well. Ask a basic question, get a response tailored to a basic skillset. Doesn't matter how old you are.

ANSWER 5 (id: 661_7):
I agree with Mr Burgandy. I don't think it's necessary to remove the pan unless you have other business like a leaky pan gasket or something. The shavings should stay localized and can be flushed out.

ANSWER 6 (id: 661_8):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy He's a rogue toaster Probably. In any case, I would personally just install an aftermarket lower pan for $20-40. But what do I know, it's not like I'm a nearly 15 year M42 fanatic or anything. I swear I'm reformed and only have an M40 these days, and they have absolutely no common components like oil pans whatsoever...