QUESTION ID: 3357

QUESTION:
I woke up yesterday morning to find that i had a private message from this little douche monkey. apparently he wasn't too fond of my comments in regard to his troll thread a couple days ago. LOLOLOLOL!!!!! everyone loves an internet tough guy. you say that i don't know you. this is true but i do "know you" little boy. there is, though, one thing that i can see now that i did get wrong. we will get to that in a minute. here is a tip for your future reference: if you feel you need to go around telling everyone how old you are and how much money you make, its all lies. if you need to tell everyone how smart you are, you are not. just the same, if you think threatening someone over the internet is going to accomplish anything, you are nothing but an angry little girl blaring your horn and flipping people the bird from the safety of your locked prius. as i stated earlier, you are nothing but a little boy screaming for attention. how do i know this? you made 47 worthless argumentative posts your troll thread(all of this in less than one single day!!!!). you should have been banned for that alone. you have lots of other mental deficiencies too. for example, you are conflicted with closet homosexuality issues. no one here minds if you like to kiss boys. you need to find better ways to channel your anger. at this point, i can predict 2 things with almost absolute certainty: 1) every time you post spew in this thread or anywhere else on this forum, i am going to be there riding your ass like zorro. here at r3v, we don't suffer fools very well. unfortunately, i perhaps have the least tolerance for noisy little boys than anyone else on the forum. you may think this is an attack you personally. it is not. consider this a personality adjustment. the fact is that you are a little asshole and this is an education in setting you straight. we are here to take up the slack in your mother's parenting deficiencies. 2) the shit you end up posting here is going to very deservedly get you banned. good luck with your home economics class. there are lots of girls there but none of them would touch you with a ten foot pole. but then, you really aren't interested in them anyway.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3357_10):
Originally posted by mark1991 You say I am new because personal attacks are common here? The members here are known for handing trolls like pros, tracking down scammers in person, solving crimes, ordering pizza for the unfortunate victims of idiocy, etc. Originally posted by Powling I think he meant 'you are new here' in terms of you not reading the whole thread. If you read douche-tard's posts you'd see where the personal attacks came from, haha. That too. :)

ANSWER 2 (id: 3357_3):
You're right I'm broke, I don't even own a clean e30, I am underemployed and underpaid. Reread the thread, y'all started the insults. Then you cry uncle when you can't hang. Sent from my SM-N920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3357_4):
Lol I read that thread when it was a little 5 post nugget, then when I came back later and saw that it had jumped to like 3 pages I figured it was just a shitshow and stayed away. I ain't got time to read shit like that.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3357_5):
I didn't read all the posts in the thread but it appears to be a common dispute. Does a salvage title significantly affect the value of a E30? Answers: 1. Yes; 2. No; and 3. Maybe. Why all the personal attacks from both sides?

ANSWER 5 (id: 3357_6):
Originally posted by mark1991 I didn't read all the posts in the thread but it appears to be a common dispute. Does a salvage title significantly affect the value of a E30? Answers: 1. Yes; 2. No; and 3. Maybe. Why all the personal attacks from both sides? You're definitely new here. ;)

ANSWER 6 (id: 3357_8):
Originally posted by mark1991 You say I am new because personal attacks are common here? I think he meant 'you are new here' in terms of you not reading the whole thread. If you read douche-tard's posts you'd see where the personal attacks came from, haha.