QUESTION ID: 678

QUESTION:
Hey guys, Thought I'd share my experience. This has been documented but the pictures show how well it really works. Here is what you need Boiled linseed oil Paint thinner (mineral spirits) Isopropyl alcohol (optional) Cloth/towel The alcohol is to help clean and prep the area. You can do this by other means. Make sure you get boiled linseed oil and not non-boiled. So here's what inspired me to give this a go. My air filter housing for my m3 is pretty nasty looking. I just got the AFM refurbished from Greg, so there's no way I can use the housing as is. I tried using other dressing sprays but it didn't work very well. Well, after cleaning the area with isopropyl alcohol, I mixed the linseed oil and paint thinner about 50/50. Then I dabbed my cloth in it and applied it to the housing. I waited a minute then wiped the excess. I think the pictures say it all. The plastic looks so much better, almost new. I wish I knew this before I painted all my trim pieces with trim paint, because this would of restored them perfectly. You can expect to pay about $15 for everything you need. So I'd strongly recommend this to restore door trim, bumper trim, any black plastic pieces really. I was about to spend $160 on a new filter housing, no need to anymore.

ANSWER 1 (id: 678_3):
Boiled Linseed Oil You can get it at Home Depot or any hardware store. Usually in the wood finishing section. Just don't leave any rags around with this stuff on them. It is known to cause spontaneous combustion because it generates heat as it dries.

ANSWER 2 (id: 678_5):
Originally posted by Dakotademon7 I'll have to give this a try. How long does it last ? I did this a few weeks ago, and it still looks the same as It did when I first did it. I don't imagine It will wear off for a few months atleast Originally posted by Martin C. Where did you get the Boiled Linseed Oil??? Home Depot, in the paint thinner section

ANSWER 3 (id: 678_6):
Nice. What you were cleaning was most likely the cosmoline painted or sprayed on by the factory (Did European cars get it too? Or just cars that were going on ships to prevent salt water damage?) Please post up in a year or to. Would love to see the long term. I've tried that "back-to-black" stuff when I had an e21, and it worked....for a month....then it was more "back-to-more-gray-than-it-was-when-you-started"

ANSWER 4 (id: 678_7):
Yes, would love to see the longevity. I grabbed the "wipe new" crap from the as seen on tv section and it worked well for the summer. Will need to reapply in the spring. Wonder if the linseed approach will help with any dried on wax....

ANSWER 5 (id: 678_8):
Originally posted by Swanny Yes, would love to see the longevity. I grabbed the "wipe new" crap from the as seen on tv section and it worked well for the summer. Will need to reapply in the spring. Wonder if the linseed approach will help with any dried on wax.... Should be a good wax sealer you can apply afterwards to protect the raw plastic layer Sent from my SCH-I605 using Tapatalk