QUESTION ID: 555

QUESTION:
So, having taken a (more than a year now...) long break from my instrument cluster design due to the chip shortage, I am back - with a check panel replacement. I actually started this project about a year ago but quite literally 80% of the BOM (aside from passives) went out of stock between beginning the design and getting ready to order the bare PCB, so I said fuck it and decided to focus on getting the car out to the track. The reason I have decided to revist this while leaving the cluster project on hold is mostly to feel out where things are at in terms of component availability, this board is relatively simple and not that much of a time sink if I can't make it work. The industry is still quite rough in some spots but other areas are starting to see improvement, so I am optimistic I can return to semi-hobby prototyping of some of my E30 schemes. Anyway, I have completely refreshed the design, including moving to a significantly more expensive, overkill and less popular processor, and I should have bare boards in hand for the first prototype in about a week (they just left China). I have all the critical parts aside from the desired GPS module sitting on my desk right now. 3D render of the prototype PCB: This project is being designed in two stages - the first stage that has already been kicked off is the quick and dirty prototype. This is being done using relatively easy to deal with parts, all signals are being exposed on the outer layers, and I can 'easily' fiddle and rework things by hand here on the bench as I validate basic mechanical and electrical functionality. I expect there to be a few weeks and weekends of tinkering before actually ordering phase two: Whoa! The same thing, but in white! Not really - here is a snapshot of the backside of the two boards: As you can hopefully see, there are some minor differences aside from the colour. These primarily come down to signal integrity, automated assembly support, and lots of other details that I am happy to get into if anyone is interested in but otherwise I will save you all from being bored to death. Long story short the R1 board (white) is much, much more difficult to debug but should be much more robust as a device in the car. The R1 board will likely also undergo some minor changes before being actually ordered, but this will be based on testing done on the R0 board that I should have in hand shortly. Note that the big ugly grey thing in the above front renders is actually a display - it should look something more like this (I just don't have a nice 3D model, screen image just taken from display manufacturers website and beautifully 'shopped into place): The hardware feature list, as designed:Full E30 check panel functionality - reads all the same factory signals and can turn on the 'CHECK' lamp in the instrument cluster. Intended to mate with factory E30 check panel connector (well, from a 325is - the 318/models without the full wiring harness will need an adapter and obviously won't be able to get all the 325i functionality). 9 1 watt high brightness R/G/B fully programmable LEDs. 7 2 position toggle switches. These can either be a less expensive (but still very solid feeling, I have some on my desk) easy to flip switch such as SW609 or a locking toggle that is not something you can accidentally flip (the other 6 switches). 2 12 position rotary knobs. A 1.8" high brightness touchscreen (no multi-touch but works with any driving/racing gloves). A USB-C connector on the front panel. Light intensity sensors on both the front and back panels, these can ideally be used to monitor cabin brightness and possibly sun-in-your-face and adjust light dimming accordingly. A temperature sensor, so you know can better guess exactly how much you are sweating your balls off while ripping around the track. An integrated micro-SD card. An integrated 10 or 30Hz GPS (A separate antenna will need to be routed all of 3 inches to the windshield). Note that the 30Hz GPS, when I can fucking buy them without a 52 week lead time, is a drop in compatible part that also has an accelerometer and dead-reckoning capabilities. CANbus integration - either using the header on the back of the board (J204) or you can solder-jumper the PCB and reuse the factory oil pan level sensor wires. I would generally recommend running new twisted pair all the way to your aftermarket ECU, but I figure plenty of people running an aftermarket ECU probably dumped the basically useless oil pan sensor, and these wires are already in the harness, so it might make life easier having the option. A small handful of spare I/O - two analog inputs and two outputs. This is really being designed to complement my MS3 installation and provide a number of switched inputs, as well as some basic telemetry display. This obviously requires moving data over CAN and won't be of any use to someone running a factory ECU. I think it would be pretty trivial to offer two versions, one with switches and one without, each with a different faceplate (assuming there is any interest). Anyway, I hope to be building the prototype up next weekend at the latest - I will update this thread sometime around then.

ANSWER 1 (id: 555_10):
Wow, consider me impressed! I've got a couple generations of Metcal MX-5000s at work, love using such nice equipment. The newer one has "connection validation" which is a bit gimmicky but the on-demand power is so smooth. 0.5mm 48-pin QFP was not so hard to get really nice with a good hoof tip. Recently got a Hakko FX-888D at home, best I had was a moderately sharp cone tip, much tougher to get a 10-pin 0.5mm IC on the board, so I totally feel you on good equipment. My dash display PCBs came without that 0.5mm 10-pin IC so I've gotta do those by hand, going to take it to work to use the Metcal for it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 555_11):
Good idea to replace the basic stock check panel. An affordable easy option in my guess (for standalone ECU owners) ..Stock check lights might be tricky to add but possible: An Android phone equal in size of the check panel with 3d printed frame (to look neat) would be more easy to connect using both USB to serial or Bluetooth to your MS,Speeduino or any standalone via apps like MS Droid, MS Tune, Real Dash...etc. Just an idea...

ANSWER 3 (id: 555_12):
Originally posted by mikey.antonakakis Wow, consider me impressed! I've got a couple generations of Metcal MX-5000s at work, love using such nice equipment. The newer one has "connection validation" which is a bit gimmicky but the on-demand power is so smooth. 0.5mm 48-pin QFP was not so hard to get really nice with a good hoof tip. Recently got a Hakko FX-888D at home, best I had was a moderately sharp cone tip, much tougher to get a 10-pin 0.5mm IC on the board, so I totally feel you on good equipment. My dash display PCBs came without that 0.5mm 10-pin IC so I've gotta do those by hand, going to take it to work to use the Metcal for it. I have to agree regarding the metcal unit - extremely happy with mine, but CV stays off as I just find it annoying. I guess if I ever have an intern working out of the house it might come in useful for a bit, but that is rather unlikely: I usually solder 0.5 QFPs, sometimes under the magnifier, with a fine tip (either a conical ~0.4 or a chisel tip held sideways). Hoof may be easier but I don't have one and have not tried it. The trick I find is to just use a very tiny amount of solder - so you need a very fine solder gauge. Do that, with plenty of flux, and it goes very fast. It is unusual for me to even bridge a pin on a 144-LQFP anymore. For inspection, I would very highly recommend a cheap USB microscope. It makes spotting bad joins so trivial the $40 or whatever they cost is well worth it. Aden, if all you want is a little touch dash or something, then I totally agree a phone would be the way to go. In this case the physical buttons and non-capacitive touch screen are intended to be fully compatible with gloves, and it is hard to screw up (hit the wrong one, hit it twice, etc.) relatively large locking switches and dials when 99% of your attention is focused on the next corner or the guy riding your ass.

ANSWER 4 (id: 555_2):
Originally posted by Kelso840 Pics aren't working on my PC. Anyone else? I'm definitely interested in this product. Would be nice to switch launch control on/off with a switch. Redid the images, I think before they were linking to a google photos share instead of actually being embedded.

ANSWER 5 (id: 555_3):
Originally posted by JehTehsus Redid the images, I think before they were linking to a google photos share instead of actually being embedded. Those images took me from "definitely interested" to TAKE MY MONEY. Since you're still in the design phase I'll throw out a pipe dream suggestion -- integrating some kind of front-facing camera for dash cam purposes. It would be a design challenge and of course increase cost but I'd be all over it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 555_4):
While I do think it would be super cool to integrate a camera as well, I just don't think it is feasible in this project - chip availability is so bad right now I am already having to make a bunch of 'weird' compromises I would rather not have to spend time and effort on just to make things work as is.

ANSWER 7 (id: 555_5):
Oh hey, not sure how much you've messed with pulling data from MegaSquirt, but I've got a library for that if it's helpful: GitHub - mantonakakis1/MegaCAN: Megasquirt CAN Protocol with Arduino https://github.com/mantonakakis1/MegaCAN Megasquirt CAN Protocol with Arduino. Contribute to mantonakakis1/MegaCAN development by creating an account on GitHub. I'm eventually planning to fully implement ALL of the Megasquirt CAN protocol into it, but works great for dash display and expanded Megasquirt inputs as-is.

ANSWER 8 (id: 555_6):
Originally posted by mikey.antonakakis Oh hey, not sure how much you've messed with pulling data from MegaSquirt, but I've got a library for that if it's helpful: GitHub - mantonakakis1/MegaCAN: Megasquirt CAN Protocol with Arduino https://github.com/mantonakakis1/MegaCAN Megasquirt CAN Protocol with Arduino. Contribute to mantonakakis1/MegaCAN development by creating an account on GitHub. I'm eventually planning to fully implement ALL of the Megasquirt CAN protocol into it, but works great for dash display and expanded Megasquirt inputs as-is. Very cool, thank you for sharing. I am not building this on an Arduino, but I will be writing the firmware in C++ so it could likely be usable for me without too much hassle. Still waiting for the prototype PCBs to arrive so I can start validating the peripheral set and mechanicals. In the meantime I am working on finalizing the R1 setup and am almost at the point where I cannot proceed until I am done with the r0 prototype, so that is good.

ANSWER 9 (id: 555_7):
Bare prototype boards arrived today. I don't have time to start the assembly yet, but I hope to tackle it before the long weekend (or at least get most of it out of the way so I can get to basic electrical validation next week). All the new footprints check out OK, at least mechanically. These are super quick and dirty but I am reasonably happy with how they turned out, especially given the time involved:

ANSWER 10 (id: 555_9):
Originally posted by mikey.antonakakis Assembling all that by hand? Yeesh! Heh, this is nothing! And I am primarily firmware guy, believe it or not. My bench is comfortably setup for easily working down to 0603 and 0.5mm QFPs, which is my usual prototyping size. I start to slow down at 0402 and anything smaller than that is entirely done under the microscope and really slow. Depending on the board and component count I may or may not use a stencil, paste and the air gun. These R0 prototypes for example are getting close to the limit part count wise I want to manually solder down, but doing placement only for hot air re-flow I can go a lot higher, just time/effort tradeoffs that have to be decided on when ordering a board. In my experience prototyping it is fastest to just hand build (or manual placement+hot air reflow) basically anything in volumes of 1-5 units, you spend more time dicking around with the manufacturer and spend way more money just to find out one of your footprints is critically wrong, which takes two days to track down on a fully assembled board and a few minutes to discover when you place critical IC's one by one and check stuff with the bench meter. I think assembly quality and speed is actually almost all down to having good tools. And for some stuff like finer pitch BGAs they are probably not feasible to prototype at all without good tools like a proper rework station, as density and size goes up hand placement becomes borderline impossible to do correctly, and even when done perfectly properly re-flowing a decent size BGA is a bit tricky without automated temperature control and a pre-heater.