QUESTION ID: 1717

QUESTION:
Oh well. When you wake up one morning and receive a message from Facebook explaining that because I have posted stuff that were not «acceptable» (porn, weapons, drugs - that was done during the night while I was sleeping, it is clear I was hacked) that all my FB account have been suspended. Trying to contact FB to sort it out lead nowhere. 24 hours later, my personal and work accounts have been totally suspended and all traces of life are now erased. Getting emails from peoples wondering what happened and worried I had died or gone bankrupt. Nop. Nothing like that and I still ship daily. So. After getting totally depressed for 24 hours, I reactivated my domain name, registered to a website host and learned how to become a web geek. I was an art director in advertising and designer in my previous life, so designing is not a problem. But I expect to spend 100 hours building anew website, especially that many precious pictures have been wiped out and I have to reshoot.... https://www.massivebrakes.com/ is the same URL as before, is now active but the website is obviously just starting. So, I have to build it up from the ground. I would appreciate if you could click on the link, so that Google can start building its search database Thank you very much all Lee​ ​ Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1717_0):
Originally posted by Massive Lee Oh well. When you wake up one morning and receive a message from Facebook explaining that because I have posted stuff that were not «acceptable» (porn, weapons, drugs - that was done during the night while I was sleeping, it is clear I was hacked) that all my FB account have been suspended. Trying to contact FB to sort it out lead nowhere. 24 hours later, my personal and work accounts have been totally suspended and all traces of life are now erased. Getting emails from peoples wondering what happened and worried I had died or gone bankrupt. Nop. Nothing like that and I still ship daily. So. After getting totally depressed for 24 hours, I reactivated my domain name, registered to a website host and learned how to become a web geek. I was an art director in advertising and designer in my previous life, so designing is not a problem. But I expect to spend 100 hours building anew website, especially that many precious pictures have been wiped out and I have to reshoot.... https://www.massivebrakes.com/ is the same URL as before, is now active but the website is obviously just starting. So, I have to build it up from the ground. I would appreciate if you could click on the link, so that Google can start building its search database Thank you very much all Lee​ ​ oh no. sorry to hear that. might be time to run from fakebook anyway. my page was compromised almost a decade ago and i've never gotten any response or help to recapture or open a new account. it was a personal account that was hacked. fakebook won't even let me open one for the business either. edit: clicking to help ...

ANSWER 2 (id: 1717_1):
Originally posted by 82eye oh no. sorry to hear that. might be time to run from fakebook anyway. my page was compromised almost a decade ago and i've never gotten any response or help to recapture or open a new account. it was a personal account that was hacked. fakebook won't even let me open one for the business either. I don't expect to return to Facebook anytime soon either. It is a great tool, but it comes with too many strings attached.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1717_2):
Originally posted by Massive Lee I don't expect to return to Facebook anytime soon either. It is a great tool, but it comes with too many strings attached. think their time is over. reddit is killing them. not a big fan of reddit either. it's time for a new platform to develop.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1717_3):
Originally posted by 82eye think their time is over. reddit is killing them. not a big fan of reddit either. it's time for a new platform to develop. Yes, You are correct. But as Facebook has managed to buy many competitors and integrated them within their ecosystem, it will be hard to replace... Messenger. Marketplace. Instagram. etc

ANSWER 5 (id: 1717_4):
Originally posted by Massive Lee Yes, You are correct. But as Facebook has managed to buy many competitors and integrated them within their ecosystem, it will be hard to replace... Messenger. Marketplace. Instagram. etc their platform changes with the political wind now. it's all over when that starts. you can't trust a platform that allows itself to be used that way. it's simply not a secure way to do business or post personal information.