QUESTION ID: 2967

QUESTION:
It's not an e30 and technically it's not even German since the build sheet says it's made in Slovakia. We've been using an 02 A6 for projects and it's gotten too small so I've been hunting for a good all purpose vehicle with more capacity. I looked at older vans which are cheap enough but I really don't feel like spending time behind the wheel of one. After deciding that an SUV would be ideal i started looking at X3s &5s. Stumbled over this Touareg on CL, texted the owner and made an apt for the next day. When I got there he texted he was stuck in traffic and to look it over. It looks like a repaint since there are slight flaws here and there but over all very well done. Front bumper cover is a bit beat up but no signs of fluid leaks and VERY clean under body with visible bushings looking fresh. Love Florida for this. The guy calls to ask me what I think. It's needs 4 tires (wearing mismatched 265/50/19) and the rotors are all badly scored so I asked him what his bottom line was. Ask was only $3200 and he says $26-2700 ? (The question mark was in his voice). I said I was thinking $2k but have to turn the key to make a decision. He says if I can come back he would sell it for that. Ok he needs the cash, plates are expired, not the nicest neighborhood and a long drive..but I like it. I do an autocheck, 1 was a dealer who sold,it as a CPO in 09 the other was a title loan company so really 2 owners. I call a dealer and get the build sheet, then go online and confirm it. lien free. I text the guy the next morning that I'm on my way and he texts back that they've decided to keep it. As much as I wanted to tell him to take a leap off a high bridge, my response "and I just left the bank with a pocket full of cash". 10 minutes later (probably after beating up his wife) he calls tomsay come drivenit and if I want it he will do the deal. Headed up, met the guy, nice guy actually, looked it over, drove it and bought it. Went back yesterday to pick it up and on the drive home it actually performed impeccably. Yes it needs tires and brakes but those do function for now. I've already found a few quirks. The ac drains are plugged so water dumped on the gas pedal in a turn and, irony of ironies, the liftgate struts are blown (my kharma yes) lol. In hindsight he was holding then liftgate up when I peaked in the back. Missed that one but maybe a new product line :-) Low beam halogen bulb out, rear signal light, worn dash buttons...and that's about it. Not bad for 140k mi $2k beater w a 7700lb towing capacity and the Cayenne and Q7 for cousins. [/url]image

ANSWER 1 (id: 2967_0):
Found a new Beast Wow. Scored nicely there! You’ll suffer a little with the gas mileage though, a diesel would have been perfect, but nicely done nonetheless. Just as a comparison we just sold our 2005 X3 with 220,000 miles for $3,500 replacement is a 2014 328d, and LOVE the 600 miles range.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2967_1):
nice score! a couple yrs ago I bought an 01 Allroad (still my daily until now) for $3K from my audi mechanic......so far *knock on wood*, it has been the most cost effective $3K I've ever spent on a car. Granted it needed some work along the 2yr stretch so far, it has saved me a ton on having a car payment. Good luck with the new acquisition!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2967_10):
Other than oil changes we havent spent a dime on the A6. Its a tank. Seems the actual AC drain is behind the PS well liner. Cleared that and seems to have done the trick. Also figured out the bluetooth in the aftermarket head unit so we can listen to our own music and today I order cabin, oil & air fliters & a serpentine belt. Then stopped by Pepboys to price Pirelli Verde All season Plus' in 265 50 19. Right at $1k before the $60 MIP. Not bad Brake pads arrived. They are 4x the size of e30 pads :-)

ANSWER 4 (id: 2967_2):
We bought this 2002 A6 3.0 at a DUI auction in NC for $2600 and in 3 years and has never let us down. It only had 71k (has 90 now), brand new Michelins and had just received a $1900 TB service from the dealer but we've out grown it with all our projects so its going for sale. Today pulled the rear turn signal unit and it has a cracked lens so was full of water which corroded the bulb socket. Cleaned all that up, put in a new orange bulb and thats working fine. I'll seal the lens asap. Pulled the headlight out which is amazingly easy and swapped the low beam for H7 that has been sitting on my desk for some strange reason (which we now understand) since we moved back to Tampa. so all lights work. Still have to clear that AC drain and get over my horror at the failed liftgate struts (all $165 worth of them). Oh...best Maaco Ive seen in a while lol

ANSWER 5 (id: 2967_3):
Another interesting point which could have e30 relevance is that the seller had just paid off a title loan and so it was still in the name of the lender who had signed off on it. I did do a lien check so I knew it was F&C HOWEVER...the DMV said the guy who signed it wasnt listed as authorized so I needed a letter from the lender. Being a title loan co you never know how they might respond so I called their corporate office in Georgia and they said they have someone on the ground here contact me. First thing this morning I got a call saying come pick up your letter..which was signed by their CEO and listed all their currently authorized people. I truly wasnt concerned since I also check the company with the state and it seems they didnt file their annual report so are listed as "inactive". That probably means that every loan theyve made since then is not binding and they cannot enforce anything within the state lol

ANSWER 6 (id: 2967_5):
I've never seen these guys mentioned but this is the 3rd majormdeal ive done with these guys. I bought a set of Koni FSDs for the Audi when we 1st got it and a recent set of Koni Sports & H&R springs for our eta (still haven't installed them). Now just bought 4 ebc rotors, 2 sets of Pagid pads and 4 Pagid brake sensors for $353 from Import Replacement Parts (importrp.com) for the Beast. They are in WA and inaddition to beating anyone else on price, they are good people to deal with. def worth a look.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2967_8):
Originally posted by KIRIEIW Seems like your a deal hunter like me, congrats Jeff! I think its less that I hunt for them than that I trip over them and they follow me home :-) Today I cleared the VAG equivalent of our elephant trunk. Hopefully my shoes will stay dry and it will make sense to shampoo these nasty carpets

ANSWER 8 (id: 2967_9):
Originally posted by TimeMachinE30 Was hoping V10 TDI. This is what I really want, but doesnt look like its happening. Im not sure but I thought the cheater-TDI were the V6 models, not the V10 Looks like a nice car overall, Ive heard that maintenance can be expensive though, but coming from an Audi A6, it shouldnt be much of a shock