QUESTION ID: 1065

QUESTION:
New memeber here but not new to forums. Mods please move this thread if it's in the wrong place. I guess I'll get around to an official build thread eventually but currently I've got an issue and cannot find any info. I got given a pretty beat up e30 for free and I've decided to strip it out since it was already halfway there and ls swap it and turn it into a track car. My issue right now is removing the main wiring loom in one piece and I cannot find any diagrams on it. I want to keep everything intact so I can sell/reuse it. My first question is, do I even need that whole wiring loom that runs through the whole car to the rear on the drivers side if I'm doing an engine swap and do need any of whatever it hooks up to? I just need the engine and gauge cluster to run I don't need any speakers,heating, power windows etc. My second question is how the hell do I remove the HVAC box behind the dash? It's got some piping from what I assume is the AC and heater going into it and outside of cutting everything in half how do I remove this giant box? Thanks in advance. I have also exhausted the search function before posting but if someone can provide me to a link with answers if there are any that would be awesome. imgur.com http://imgur.com/GFrkkVH Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users. Interior wiring loom I've managed to remove from the trunk and this is whats left inside. imgur.com http://imgur.com/ojX76M9 Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users. HVAC box is the black thing in the center. I've looks all over and cannot find any other fasteners for it and it still wont budge.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1065_0):
Stripping entire car. Need some help. Oh you're going to like my thread. See sig. Pages 11 & 18 Heater box has 5 fasteners (4 under the cowl, 1 at the base in front of shifter) make sure the heater core/hoses are out, same for the AC condensor, and then you just have to lift up to free it from the floor drains (rubber tubes, just slide off). Then you can pull it back and away from the cowl/firewall. I got my entire harness out in one piece and back in the same way. Wiring in trunk powers tail lights, trunk lights, trunk release, fuel door lock, rear bumper reflectors, amplifier, and a couple relays. I'd leave it intact. It doesn't complicate the removal much. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1065_1):
Ah sweet this is the thread I was hoping to get pointed to. Thank you! I'll get around to starting my own thread soon. Got the wiring loom out and probably going to go with an EZ harness or a another solution just to cut down on weight since this will be a track car. Thanks for the tips and the plug to your thread! Originally posted by CurrusDei Oh you're going to like my thread. See sig. Pages 11 & 18 Heater box has 5 fasteners (4 under the cowl, 1 at the base in front of shifter) make sure the heater core/hoses are out, same for the AC condensor, and then you just have to lift up to free it from the floor drains (rubber tubes, just slide off). Then you can pull it back and away from the cowl/firewall. I got my entire harness out in one piece and back in the same way. Wiring in trunk powers tail lights, trunk lights, trunk release, fuel door lock, rear bumper reflectors, amplifier, and a couple relays. I'd leave it intact. It doesn't complicate the removal much. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1065_2):
Originally posted by The Dark Side of Will Is this an M3? Its got an M badge on the back but also 325e badges so I'm not sure if someone just added it on. And its got the inline 6 and I believe the M's came with i4. I'm not too familiar with this platform yet so correct me if I'm wrong

ANSWER 4 (id: 1065_3):
Originally posted by Gooby Its got an M badge on the back but also 325e badges so I'm not sure if someone just added it on. And its got the inline 6 and I believe the M's came with i4. I'm not too familiar with this platform yet so correct me if I'm wrong It's not an M3. At all.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1065_4):
Originally posted by CurrusDei Oh you're going to like my thread. See sig. Pages 11 & 18 Heater box has 5 fasteners (4 under the cowl, 1 at the base in front of shifter) make sure the heater core/hoses are out, same for the AC condensor, and then you just have to lift up to free it from the floor drains (rubber tubes, just slide off). Then you can pull it back and away from the cowl/firewall. I got my entire harness out in one piece and back in the same way. Wiring in trunk powers tail lights, trunk lights, trunk release, fuel door lock, rear bumper reflectors, amplifier, and a couple relays. I'd leave it intact. It doesn't complicate the removal much. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Sweet thank you, going to attack this tonight!

ANSWER 6 (id: 1065_5):
Originally posted by nrubenstein It's not an M3. At all. Sweet thats what I figured. Going for an engine swap so it wont be much of a BMW anyways Edit: Can mods move this thread if possible as I'm realizing its posted in the wrong place since I do not have an M3. Apologies.