QUESTION ID: 2220

QUESTION:
New to the forum (moron disclaimer) but a fan of BMW's and may have found a good deal? Local listing for a 1991 318IS. Seller values at $7000. I know and own newer models (MINI, E46) but not much knowledge with E30 stuff. Rebuilt motor, repaint, racing seats and rollbar. Looking around, these seem to land $6000 in "Fair" condition. Looks like a fun car to play with but not seeing it as exactly what he claims as rare or becoming a collector item. Looking for opinions. One of those - getting hard to find but is that a reason for increased value? It has a 'rebuilt' title with no apparent damage but I'm not feeling $7K. Link: https://spokane.craigslist.org/cto/d...427219509.html Came to the fountain of knowledge hopeful for armchair appraisals. Thanks!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2220_0):
I think that's reasonable at that ask in this crazy market. However, I do not believe the rebuilt engine line at all, and I'd expect most every bushing to be trashed too. That said, offer what you want after looking at it, and if the seller takes it you will both be happy, if not, on to something else. Do keep in mind that the M42 engine has a very high maintenance cost if the timing set has been neglected. Although I am a long time four banger aficionado I now suggest swapping away from them. Only other advice would be to treat it as a fun car and not go nuts with rework on a highish mileage likely fairly neglected car with a branded title. None of those things should scare an enthusiast, but they will be total turn offs to the "collector" scene.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2220_1):
Proper advise. Looking for a weekend fun car, safety items first up. Wish they had the limited slip diff but that could be added. Not thinking it will lose value with a little love but the asking number seems a tad high? Didn't know about the T-chain being a spendy venture. Thanks for the points!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2220_10):
Originally posted by White_Knuckles Great tips. I checked to see if DME's are available from past horrors. Finding a few out there where when you find none or they cost big bucks is a red flag. Good to know they're not high fail. The crank sensor is available but the crank balancer is an elusive pup only spotted used. There is a pretty large after market for E30's which is good. The M42 engine is interesting. I've not seen swaps to more modern engines, well one had an LS V8 but that guy was nutty. Spend a bit more time here- People have been swapping e30's to newer and better drivetrains for a very, very long time- Long before BaT types found out e30's are cool. Many different swap variations are well-documented on this site M42's were commonly cast aside for better drivetrains before e30 values began to rise, they are pretty underwhelming. The whole "baby M3" thing is a recent development and pretty over-hyped IMO

ANSWER 4 (id: 2220_11):
I've seen that hype and maybe agree they're a poor mans, kinda-sorta M3?. Kinda in the sense it's balanced, light, and handles. An entry level Bimmer to compete with the VW GTI in the days of US market sales wars is what brought the '91 IS across the pond. The 'analog-ness' is more of the legend appealing to me. So the chassis is a find but unlike Jag XJ V8 swap kits, I'll have to learn about various fitments. The whole trick is not messing with the weight balance. Thinking VTEC or other mystery power plants may show up from creative builders? Seems the chassis is a worthy platform.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2220_12):
Yes, exactly, a 16v GTI competitor at a very similar price point, and no one would compare a 16v to an M3, even though the US M3 is just not that special. Heresy, I know. If you want analog/simple, it continues in to the E36s in both the 318ti and the Z3. Those both offer similar to E30 experiences without E30 prices.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2220_2):
It should have a locking 4.10, but it might not be there anymore. If you do the work yourself you'll come out just fine, if you pay a shop you will be underwater immediately. Also, sterling silver normally suffers from clear failure, so expect bad paint if you venture out to see it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2220_3):
Wow, I read the '01's shipped to the US were conventional differentials where only 325's had them? That would be a bonus to have an LSD under that thing. I do enjoy wrenching on them. Parts chasing is a fun challenge too. I looked into the Bosch ECU injection module. Yikes, that thing can be a rare bird most needing to send out for reflashing. New ones or refurbished units are noi to be found. But, they aren't thousands to source like Mercedes ECU's. The paint looks like a quick and dirty respray. They painted over the black side moldings. Grrrrr. I'm going to see it next week. We are in snow season trying to land a viewing time.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2220_4):
limited-slip differential was an option on the 318is, just like a sunroof and central locking. helped to keep the price down. just because it's an "is" model, doesn't necessarily mean it has a limited-slip. great little cars. m42 is a great pair for the chassis. i miss my last 318is dearly.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2220_5):
While it's true that the locker is technically optional, it seems like the majority of 318is models ended up with one. I really only discommend the M42 these days due to the cost of timing components, the difficulty sourcing a working new crank sensor, and the NLA crank damper/balancer which is typically nearing end of life these days. Other than that, bounce the M42 off the limter all day, it's a fun engine. OP, not sure what you're on about with the injection module, perhaps you mean the DME, and those are thick on the ground in the used market.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2220_6):
Definitely not a steal... Kind of seems like it at first but when you really start looking at the pictures it looks like it'll be pretty rough in person. Cheap re-spray + salvage title kind of kills the value in my opinion. Could be a nice "fun" car but would definitely take more money than it's worth to make it truly nice again

ANSWER 11 (id: 2220_7):
Originally posted by roguetoaster While it's true that the locker is technically optional, it seems like the majority of 318is models ended up with one. OP, not sure what you're on about with the injection module, perhaps you mean the DME, and those are thick on the ground in the used market. There is an "S" tag on the diff that may reveal a locker I'll check for. I'm talking about the Bosch Motronic Engine Management system. The ECU units themselves available in the US are used or may be reflashed. Looks like a $500 adventure should one smoke. I always check for these as I had a E320 Merc that needed a $1000 replacement. I didn't know about the crank sensor or balancer. Yikes! He's showing the car this weekend to cash buyers, My offer was a straight trade for a well maintained '03, 325XI 130K mi. My daily driver no longer really used as now retired. Sedan for a Go-Cart. The XI is valued around 5K in the US. That year range BMW's are feared as most ran to death and neglected. Hard to say but if she's not a Frankenstein, I might trade off the sedan?

ANSWER 12 (id: 2220_8):
It more than likely has an LSD. If you can't see the S or the tag, see if the owner will jack up the car by and spin one wheel, if the other spins the same way it has an LSD. The DME is not a common failure point and not something you should waste time worrying about honestly. You can buy a used one all day long for less than $100, and if you're dead set on finding one that hasn't been chipped, its quite easy to see if they've been opened or not by checking out the tabs on the bottom. I'd say your biggest worries about be rust in the common areas, shoddy bodywork, and just the overall condition of the car. I've never owned an m42 car for more than a couple weeks, so I can't really common on the timing component maintenance, but it's covered on here for sure.

ANSWER 13 (id: 2220_9):
Great tips. I checked to see if DME's are available from past horrors. Finding a few out there where when you find none or they cost big bucks is a red flag. Good to know they're not high fail. The crank sensor is available but the crank balancer is an elusive pup only spotted used. There is a pretty large after market for E30's which is good. The M42 engine is interesting. I've not seen swaps to more modern engines, well one had an LS V8 but that guy was nutty.