QUESTION ID: 1880

QUESTION:
Hi, I’m looking to replace my rear windshield glass with defroster with new glass because my current defroster lines don’t work. Does anyone know where I can get two of them (I need two) or who sells them? If not new, does anyone have used replacement glass with confirmed, undamaged defroster lines that could be shipped? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 1880_0):
I'm assuming you've tested for voltage at the connections and know the problem is with the grid and not the circuit that feeds it. Look for breaks in the grid, you can usually find them easily and repair them with conductive paint. It's rare that the whole thing doesn't work though unless a terminal gets ripped off (also repairable), they are parallel connections so all would need to be broken for the grid to fail. Replacing glass is a pain, and if someone not competent does it they will nick the window retaining channel which might then rust. It's one of the worst places to have rust, around a window. Damage to defroster grids is common so there are ways to repair it out there.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1880_2):
I have checked the voltage at the tabs in the rear and I get 12v so I know the power is getting to the window. The hard part is testing each line because the rear windows were both newly tinted so I can’t seem to poke my probe to each line for further testing. I also replaced both switches just in case. Any other ideas that may help? Thanka

ANSWER 3 (id: 1880_3):
If you have power then you have damaged lines, as above, conductive paint fixes it, but the tint needs to go away first. I'd expect the tint install damaged something, and the removal will probably significantly damage the remaining lines.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1880_4):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I'd expect the tint install damaged something used to install graphics, wrap, tint and this will be what happened. once the car gets about ten yrs old the window lines are weak enough from uv exposure that an install will almost always break a line or two. peeling a tint off will ensure they are damaged regardless of age. we never installed tint during winter months for exactly this reason. edit : as a fix the best is removing the tint and repairing all lines in place. once the fresh lines are painted in, cured and working, it should be safe to retint without issues. the new working lines with tint can often work better than the defrost lines alone on a bare window. there are some tints with lines integrated now, but it's newer than anything i worked with.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1880_5):
Originally posted by 82eye used to install graphics, wrap, tint and this will be what happened. once the car gets about ten yrs old the window lines are weak enough from uv exposure that an install will almost always break a line or two. peeling a tint off will ensure they are damaged regardless of age. I'm not looking forward to this part of getting my wagon re-tinted.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1880_6):
Originally posted by varg I'm not looking forward to this part of getting my wagon re-tinted. a good shop can do still do it. edit : peeling it may the real problem. there's way better material for install now. sedans and coupes fair worse for uv damage due to the angle of the glass. a wagon should be better.