QUESTION ID: 1968

QUESTION:
Hi. Some advice needed. I have a mint 1985 325e. Only 50,000 miles. Bought from original owner. 5 speed. Added: wheels LSD from Z3 Coil overs new race style headers and exhaust recovered leather M3 steering wheel rear spoiler I’d love to drop in a S52 M3 engine upgrade but am unsure as it’s such a unique mint low mileage example. Would love people’s thoughts on whether or not it would devalue this cars originality and value. Thank you. Joe

ANSWER 1 (id: 1968_0):
its certainly a nice example but given its an E, the value is debatable anyway as they aren't very sort after. I say give it the engine it deserves, don't do a hack install and it will make the car more desirable. Build the car for you, don't keep it warm for another person. So far its got the right recipe, lsd, great seats, 2 door, manual.. make it happen!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1968_10):
Thanks. It’s my first E30 and I was just wondering if it was worth it. Sounds like it would be. I have a few other cars. Intention is to enjoy, never to sell. But if I do try to recoup but that’s always a big if. Thank you!!

ANSWER 3 (id: 1968_11):
I'd just keep it original. That is crazy low mileage and looks so clean, I think swapping it would spoil the experience of owning a survivor like that. The only major mod I'd consider doing is a 731 head swap.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1968_12):
Another thing to consider, while you don't have to do the swap all at once (you can acquire all of the parts first). What is your budget, if you want to do an engine swap, there will be plenty of changes and "while you are in there" things that come up. Whatever you think it will cost, realistically double that and make sure you are comfortable with all of that. In the end though, it will be very rewarding to know you've accomplished something like that.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1968_13):
If the mileage is truly that low, I'd ditch those wheels which look weird on an E30 and return it to basically stock and enjoy it as such, that is hugely rare and old and stock can be enjoyable in its own way... Before dismissing my opinion, get that this is coming from a guy with a swapped and modded to hell and back 318is and a turbo the size of a soccer ball on an E34 wagon, but neither of those are nice or low mileage cars, the only thing special about either was that the wagon is a slicktop...

ANSWER 6 (id: 1968_2):
Are you planning to keep the car long-term? If you are, the S52 will be an absolute blast. The power will wake up the experience and give you a feeling of why the E30 M3 was such a motorsports success! Chassis will handle the extra power with light suspension upgrades (which it looks like you already have).

ANSWER 7 (id: 1968_4):
You have essentially 2 potential future buyers. One segment are the purists who will clearly see the engine trasnplant as something that will devalue the car in thier opinion. The second group is all about tasteful modifications that are well executed. This is the group that an S52 swap would appeal to. If the goal is to sell the car at some future date and either break even or make a profit then swapping an S52 into it will not guarantee this. Typically if one takes the monetary out lay of capital combined with the time spent on labor then they will never recoup what they have invested Its important to identify what the long term plan is to align this decision with your goals.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1968_5):
Originally posted by e30vert You have essentially 2 potential future buyers. One segment are the purists who will clearly see the engine trasnplant as something that will devalue the car in thier opinion. The second group is all about tasteful modifications that are well executed. This is the group that an S52 swap would appeal to. If the goal is to sell the car at some future date and either break even or make a profit then swapping an S52 into it will not guarantee this. Typically if one takes the monetary out lay of capital combined with the time spent on labor then they will never recoup what they have invested Its important to identify what the long term plan is to align this decision with your goals. it's already been modded past what the original pipe and slippers crowd would want and the model had lower attention to begin with. nothing can lessen the value at this point. i'd say do it.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1968_6):
Originally posted by 82eye it's already been modded past what the original pipe and slippers crowd would want and the model had lower attention to begin with. nothing can lessen the value at this point. i'd say do it. This. 24v swap of any kind = a better driving experience in any E30. I personally think around 230 - 280 whp is the sweet spot in these cars. If you are keeping it long term, there is no reason why you shouldn't make it exactly what you want. If you can get a ride or even drive a local 24v swapped car, it will make you want to swap even more.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1968_7):
Originally posted by 82eye it's already been modded past what the original pipe and slippers crowd would want and the model had lower attention to begin with. nothing can lessen the value at this point. i'd say do it. As a pipe and slippers guy who likes stock E30s (or a stock looking E30 with an EV conversion), I third this opinion.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1968_8):
Originally posted by e30vert You have essentially 2 potential future buyers. One segment are the purists who will clearly see the engine trasnplant as something that will devalue the car in thier opinion. The second group is all about tasteful modifications that are well executed. This is the group that an S52 swap would appeal to. If the goal is to sell the car at some future date and either break even or make a profit then swapping an S52 into it will not guarantee this. Typically if one takes the monetary out lay of capital combined with the time spent on labor then they will never recoup what they have invested Its important to identify what the long term plan is to align this decision with your goals.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1968_9):
it's uncommon to see 50k mile, single owner cars, these days; from an enthusiast's standpoint, it's cool to see that the vehicle made it almost 40 years in largely original condition. i would be inclined to leave it as it were and let some appreciate it for what it is, but it's your car. do what makes you happy.