QUESTION ID: 3622

QUESTION:
Has anyone purchased and installed this kit? If so, is it a good bargain? Are there other things that could be done at the same time? Looking to go over my entire car. Thanks! https://www.ecstuning.com/BMW-E30-32....5L/ES1892317/ Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 1 (id: 3622_1):
E30 Parts for BMW | Mount, Bushing & Suspension Upgrades http://www.condorspeedshop.com/collections/e30-parts?page=5 Upgrade your BMW E30 today with our high-quality, USA-made parts. Our E30 parts for BMW include engine & transmission mount, bushing, & suspension upgrades. might wanna check this out as well and get some sort of mixture of whats offered between the two packages (ecs/condor) depending on how you want the car to ride.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3622_11):
Originally posted by raj As someone else in this thread mentioned, Blunt will take care of you. I'd shoot them an email Checking them out. Thanks. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 3 (id: 3622_7):
Originally posted by TimeMachinE30 FCPEURO does kits. They are east coast, too. I just priced everything from ECS on that site you shared and replaced the URO parts and it was almost exactly twice the cost. Worth it at almost $700? Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 4 (id: 3622_8):
It is all your choice, money and desires. I'd ask the folks at FCP, just like you would Blunt or Levent, to work up a quote. Include shipping. The ECS kit price seems too good to be true. Reviewing the contents you see why. It subs in Uro parts for the most expensive bits, the control arms. If that is an area you believe is not a place to splurge, how much difference can a LCA make, then the kit and price are justified. FCP offers Meyle and Lemforder. Having just redone my entire front suspension, I came to the decision OEM parts got the car this late into life... should give it another 27 years and 150,xxx miles. Uro... I cannot say. FCP offers a full, lifetime warranty. I am not sure they offer Uro given that. What does that say about Uro? I ended up piecing my front. When it comes time for the rear, I will just price out a kit. Money can be saved if you piece it together.. clearance or garage clean out type sales here on the forums. Read the RTS blog on CABs. Make sure the kit is even everything you want, expected results (ECS offers the centered CAB, the M3). This is a time to try aftermarket, too. Perhaps they offer designs more in tune w/ your expectations and driving style. Lastly, I ordered the JOMs when they first came into our r3v scene. $300 or so for a full suspension... "coilovers", to boot. I got what I paid for. It was good for what I wanted and wanted to spend.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3622_9):
Thanks bud. Appreciate the input. Not looking to cheap out and not interested URO after reading the reviews. I am going to shop around and see what kind of package I can put together. Mr. Wolfe