QUESTION ID: 3552

QUESTION:
Hey guys I recently talked to a neighbor of mine. They have a place up in Washington DC. One of their neighbors has had a 2 door, manual, 1985 325e sitting in a parking garage. The story is that she is the only owner of the car. She got it as a signing bonus back in the 80's but has never had it as her main car. Supposedly there are 56,000 original miles, I'm told the paint is in great shape as it has been sitting in an underground parking garage most of it's life. She has supposedly came around a couple times each year to drive it and do the basic maintenance. Color is brilliant red with tan leather interior. Being that it's an "e" i know the value would be slightly less, but the fact that it's one owner, manual, and the paint should be in great shape, what do you guys think it would be worth? I think they would be able to lowball her and pick it up for like $3k since she seems to not know much about it but as far of the actual value to the right person, I'm not sure. Wish I had pictures but this is all the info I've got. Thoughts?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3552_0):
Yea, $3k would be a good first offer. It might be worth more than that. But that's how these things work. If she doesn't know the value, that's on her.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3552_10):
Originally posted by 2mAn brilliantrot wasnt available in 85, its probably zinnoberrot Ah yeah that's what i meant sorry Originally posted by reelizmpro I'd really need to see detailed pics but 56k miles is very low. Red on tan leather is nice and should be mint with that kind of mileage. Should still run smooth as silk as well. It's hard to put a value on it but I'd say at least $5-6k if it's mint and needs nothing. Should have a recent timing belt water pump with that mileage as well. Yeah I'll have to see if I can get any pictures but it sounds like they're looking to make an offer pretty soon. I think ill suggest 3k if that sounds reasonable

ANSWER 3 (id: 3552_11):
Originally posted by 2mAn The Hennarot one on Bring a Trailer fetched over 7k and still needed a timing belt job found it No Reserve: 1984 BMW 325e 5-Speed http://bringatrailer.com/listing/1984-bmw-325e/ Bid for the chance to own a No Reserve: 1984 BMW 325e 5-Speed at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #580.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3552_12):
Originally posted by 2mAn found it http://bringatrailer.com/listing/1984-bmw-325e/ Wow that's crazy, and the one they're looking at has half the miles. Very interesting... Trying to get some pictures Sent from my XT1254 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3552_2):
I'd really need to see detailed pics but 56k miles is very low. Red on tan leather is nice and should be mint with that kind of mileage. Should still run smooth as silk as well. It's hard to put a value on it but I'd say at least $5-6k if it's mint and needs nothing. Should have a recent timing belt water pump with that mileage as well.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3552_3):
Depends There was a low mileage 325es up North (California) that fetched $11k recently or something like that. I'll try to find that ad. People usually pay a premium for originality. I'd like to see pictures. Slight dash cracks, worn seats it all brings down the price. At $3k, sounds like you'll have some good equity regardless.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3552_5):
Javier above has a point ,prices vary quite a bit depending on circumstances and luck .I paid 3200 for a car on eBay that was stated and appeared to be ready to go original California low mile one owner car .WHen the car arrived about 90 percent of what I expected was not true ,I have been fixing issues since the car was bought 6 months ago trying to get the car ready for a smog check which still has not been done I have spent many hours and approx 3000 more on the car and it has only been driven 80 miles total when I first bought it .The car will be a very nice original car, at this point with many but by no means all items addressed it but ,just enough to smog and drive the car and to find out what else it needs .About a month after I bought this car another appeared on eBay ,all original unmodified that was one owner and 33,000 original miles , about 100 photos and one of the most detailed descriptions I have ever seen for a car ,I was high bidder at 6 thousand but the car did not meet reserve ,I contacted the owner and offered another1000 which he immediately declined ,this car had the original exhaust system painted black from the factory and original tires ,but the second owner who just bought the car from the first owner claimed that he put 10,000 into the car to recommission it since it had sat for so long .My neighbor who is a car dealer just found a very nice 84 e30 low mile unmodified car ETA but with perfect sport seats and other details ,making it a special luxury model similar to my ES ,it has an original Husco armrest in perfect condition and the original bottle cap wheels and tires as an extra set ,it even has the original small size 195-60 spare Pirelli tire and wheel in mint never mounted form ,I bought this from him ,he finally reluctantly told me yesterday that he paid less than 500 for the car ...moral of this story is ....

ANSWER 8 (id: 3552_6):
Originally posted by 1843lamp Javier above has a point ,prices vary quite a bit depending on circumstances and luck .I paid 3200 for a car on eBay that was stated and appeared to be ready to go original California low mile one owner car .WHen the car arrived about 90 percent of what I expected was not true ,I have been fixing issues since the car was bought 6 months ago trying to get the car ready for a smog check which still has not been done I have spent many hours and approx 3000 more on the car and it has only been driven 80 miles total when I first bought it .The car will be a very nice original car, at this point with many but by no means all items addressed it but ,just enough to smog and drive the car and to find out what else it needs .About a month after I bought this car another appeared on eBay ,all original unmodified that was one owner and 33,000 original miles , about 100 photos and one of the most detailed descriptions I have ever seen for a car ,I was high bidder at 6 thousand but the car did not meet reserve ,I contacted the owner and offered another1000 which he immediately declined ,this car had the original exhaust system painted black from the factory and original tires ,but the second owner who just bought the car from the first owner claimed that he put 10,000 into the car to recommission it since it had sat for so long .My neighbor who is a car dealer just found a very nice 84 e30 low mile unmodified car ETA but with perfect sport seats and other details ,making it a special luxury model similar to my ES ,it has an original Husco armrest in perfect condition and the original bottle cap wheels and tires as an extra set ,it even has the original small size 195-60 spare Pirelli tire and wheel in mint never mounted form ,I bought this from him ,he finally reluctantly told me yesterday that he paid less than 500 for the car ...moral of this story is .... You make my brain hurt.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3552_7):
Sorry George ,this is why I never make posts this long .I cannot type .It takes me forever ,and I take every shortcut I can .That post took me over 1/2 hour I probably will not attempt this again and I realized was taking a chance!