QUESTION ID: 1952

QUESTION:
I was driving home one night from Mastro’s when the bumpy streets of Manhattan claimed their first victim on my E30 - the front driver-side center cap. Emotionally torn by the experience, I sought a replacement on the internet. Then I saw the price of a new one on the ClassicEuroParts website - $749??? For a wheel cap? I get they’re NLA and these are brand new with no nicks on them, but $749??? Holy shit I thought There has to be a way to turn this lemon of an experience into lemonade. I continued looking online for solutions. There are aftermarket 3D printed center caps, but they cost around $150 a pop and many of them aren’t even painted. I’ve also heard from numerous enthusiasts that they are quite shoddy in quality. That’s when I saw these puppies on Ebay (sold by a guy named addisonm95). I’m surprised they aren’t present on more 15” basketweaves that are missing the original center caps. $50 for a set of 4 was a much more palatable price; I immediately pulled the trigger. I took off the remaining center caps, fearing the roads in my area would eventually claim them as victims, and made a tidy $450 profit off them on Ebay. Upon fitting the Ebay center caps on my iX, I was impressed by how OEM they looked in terms of styling. And I can have peace of mind dailying around with these, not worrying that I will be paying an arm and a leg for a replacement if they fall off. In terms of styling, they remind of me of the E21 turbine-style wheels when fitted on to 15” E30 basketweaves. If you’re wearing the typical 15” basketweaves with holes in the center, I heavily recommend these to make your E30 more presentable. Photos of them on my car:

ANSWER 1 (id: 1952_0):
Paint the center section where the cap would have been dark argent, and possibly paint the bolts for a much better overall look. It really gives that 2002 look.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1952_1):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Paint the center section where the cap would have been dark argent, and possibly paint the bolts for a much better overall look. It really gives that 2002 look. I’ve been trying to paint that center indented area matte black while leaving the raised sections silver - I’ve seen the E21 turbines painted like this and those appear as a closer analouge to the E30 wheels vs 2002 wheels. I called up a couple of wheel shops in my area and none of them were willing to do what I asked. I’m not particularly comfortable working with a spray can given the cramped quarters I’m working in, so I’ve thought of using oil-based markers from Michael’s to black out the center area like on the E21 wheels. Something like this, except a little less shiny in the center and with silver lug bolts. It creates good contrast between the elements and looks elegant the easier thing to do would be to replace the silver lug bolts with black to ones while leaving the center silver. Although then I’ll have to clean off brake dust in the center section more often (and I’m super light on the brakes to reduce brake dust accumulation. My shop mechanic dusts up the wheels more in a day than I do in a month) - and brake dust loves accumulating in that area

ANSWER 3 (id: 1952_2):
Start with an acrylic paint pen to test it out. That will wash off on it's own quickly enough. Once you have identified what size circle you want just find a circle of that diameter and spray down it to apply. Ideally after roughing up the surface.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1952_4):
Originally posted by D3R3K There are caps on thingiverse you can 3d print out your self or if you know someone that can https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4870879 I am aware of that. I don’t have a 3D printer though, but I’d like to get into it as a hobby. I think the tech needs a bit more improvement before I’m willing to invest in a 3D printer. I only see one cap on Thingiverse from a search I did (it’s the one you linked) and it doesn’t match the quality of the factory cap (the issue being that the texture is rough). That’s why I went for these Ebay caps; they looked like a factory part.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1952_5):
Originally posted by ZeKahr I am aware of that. I don’t have a 3D printer though, but I’d like to get into it as a hobby. I think the tech needs a bit more improvement before I’m willing to invest in a 3D printer. I only see one cap on Thingiverse from a search I did (it’s the one you linked) and it doesn’t match the quality of the factory cap (the issue being that the texture is rough). That’s why I went for these Ebay caps; they looked like a factory part. I printed them for a guy at my work, he is going to sand them down( which I have no interest in lol) and paint them, but we put one on and honestly unless you are kneeling down looking at them you can’t tell, also you could improve the print quality if you know what your doing, but that’s beyond my skill level considering I don’t do much cad stuff. I can make simple things

ANSWER 6 (id: 1952_7):
Originally posted by McGyver Are ix basket weave caps different from the regular 14" basket weave caps? Yes, they’re different from the 14” basketweave caps. The main difference is the diameter - 171mm for 15” caps vs 151mm for the 14” caps. But the iX 15” ET41 basketweave caps also fit the regular ET24 15” basketweave wheels fitted to other E30s and the 16” weaves fitted to the M3. The only 15” Style 5 wheel they won’t fit is the 5-lug 15x7J wheel (that one needs a 165mm cap).