QUESTION ID: 1529

QUESTION:
Hey, I just got a 325ix, after taking it to a mechanic he found some rot on my driver side strut housing, and it's starting to crack. Has anybody ever done a rust repair on these? They seem so hard to source. Would also love to pick one up from a member if available. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1529_1):
I would also check the threaded section as it's also very common to rust. Looking at how your perch itself already has a hole... I've repaired my uncles ix housing with a section of a RWD tube. (I just used the threaded section)

ANSWER 2 (id: 1529_3):
A bodyshop probably could, but probably won't want to. You'd be better off with a welder or machinist or fabricator. Getting everything to sit straight is a slight challenge, be sure to provide the place that does yours with a strut insert so they can reference that.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1529_4):
I had a machinist cut off the rusted top section off and sacrificed 2 rwd struts for their threaded sections. Then cut the spring perches off and welded in the adjustable kit from Ground Control. https://groundcontrolstore.com/products/bmw-e30-325ix I'm also using their camber plates. Edit: I wonder if it's possible to completely switch to a different method of suspension mounting. If we could knock out the strut tube from the knuckle, grind 2 flats on each side and then drill 2 holes with 1 side tapped for bolts to go through so we could mount something like this https://www.ridefox.com/product.php?...k&t=shocks&p=9 The issue is, of course, we would need 2 bolt holes at the bottom to stop it from rotating at the knuckle and that's not a design Fox provides. I just wish there were better shocks available for the ix. We get Bilstein HD (meh) and Koni Yellows. The yellows are certainly an improvement, but I don't think they have separate low speed and high compression adjustment. They are rebound adjustable. But I would love to find a shock for the ix, even if it requires some custom welding, that will get me into a more comfortable and sporty ride.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1529_5):
I'd bet that the best way to get a better variety of struts would be to completely remove the cup from the knuckle, add a flat section and mount a two bolt flange for something like E36 struts. That gets rid of all of the insert issues, and opens up the possibility of using more off the shelf coil over components.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1529_6):
oh awesome, thanks for all the details! I found some new strut housings at a decent price, I was really tempted by coilovers but the cost was too $$$ - maybe in the future.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1529_7):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I'd bet that the best way to get a better variety of struts would be to completely remove the cup from the knuckle, add a flat section and mount a two bolt flange for something like E36 struts. That gets rid of all of the insert issues, and opens up the possibility of using more off the shelf coil over components. Yeah, I am tempted to go this route. But the issue is still finding a shock that is the right length. Maybe FWD Honda components.