QUESTION ID: 802

QUESTION:
Any particular recommendations? Experiences?

ANSWER 1 (id: 802_10):
Originally posted by mikeedler the trick is not to hit the tie-rod, but you strike the strut housing right by the tie rod end. shouldnt take more than a wack or 2. if it takes longer, your hammer is 2 small, or your hitting the wrong place. True Story. Also... if that doesnt get it out you can put the nut on top so the top of the stud and the nut are flush with eachother then hit on that. Usually hitting the strut works though... Will

ANSWER 2 (id: 802_12):
Originally posted by redhatpat I think this style would work better, but I couldn't find one for a reasonable price locally: i use one like this also, but a lil bit different. i LOVE having this tool, makes pulling the front strut job 1/2 the time.

ANSWER 3 (id: 802_13):
Originally posted by Eurospec I'd prefer not to destroy the boots on the ends. Guess I got it easy, my boots were already destroyed when I replaced mine lol.

ANSWER 4 (id: 802_2):
Originally posted by Eurospec I'd prefer not to destroy the boots on the ends. I just clipped the clamps and then slid the boots off before I attempted to remove the tie-rod. The new rods will have those thick rubber rings already on them, so you dont have to worry about destroying those.

ANSWER 5 (id: 802_3):
I've had good luck with this style ball joint puller and it was cheap, ~$15: I think this style would work better, but I couldn't find one for a reasonable price locally:

ANSWER 6 (id: 802_4):
Mine weren't that stuck... I was replacing mine anyways so I didn't care if I destroyed them.. but I think I could have gotten mine off by leaving the nut at the top of the bolt and tapping downward on the nut.

ANSWER 7 (id: 802_5):
I'm sick of wacking them with a hammer, so I got the one from bavauto.. I'm not sure how much it was, but if it will save 30-40+ minutes of hammering and cussing every time I have to work on the front end, it's worth it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 802_6):
the trick is not to hit the tie-rod, but you strike the strut housing right by the tie rod end. shouldnt take more than a wack or 2. if it takes longer, your hammer is 2 small, or your hitting the wrong place.

ANSWER 9 (id: 802_7):
Originally posted by mikeedler the trick is not to hit the tie-rod, but you strike the strut housing right by the tie rod end. shouldnt take more than a wack or 2. if it takes longer, your hammer is 2 small, or your hitting the wrong place. word. you have to whack the strut housing a couple of times before hitting the tie rod.

ANSWER 10 (id: 802_8):
Originally posted by redhatpat I've had good luck with this style ball joint puller and it was cheap, ~$15: I think this style would work better, but I couldn't find one for a reasonable price locally: I bought the one from Bav Auto like the 1st one pictured there. It's supposively for all BMWs but it didn't fit for shit. I ended up renting a tie rod puller kit from Advance Auto, and used the tool like the 2nd one pictured there. It tore up the boot, and I bent the bolt a little on the tool, but it got it out! But damn, beware of projectiles!

ANSWER 11 (id: 802_9):
Originally posted by mikeedler the trick is not to hit the tie-rod, but you strike the strut housing right by the tie rod end. shouldnt take more than a wack or 2. if it takes longer, your hammer is 2 small, or your hitting the wrong place. or sometimes it just gets stuck and I can hammer on it all day and it won't pop loose. ~$30 isn't bad for a tool that will save me time and effort.