QUESTION ID: 3300
TOPIC: cooling_system

QUESTION:
What do? Supposedly it has a "blown HG" Guy said it would run fine for 30 minutes, then peg hot, then you could turn it off, re-start it, and it would be normal, run 30 minutes, peg hot, over and over. So they replaced everything ancillary on the engine, then the engine. Gave me the "core". Don't see milkshake in the coolant or oil. Everything smells kosher. Bascially I have a engine, sans DISA, WP, t-stat, harness, exhaust manis, crank sensor, coil packs, etc. Ancillary stuff they replaced they kept, but said I could have them in a couple weeks if the car didn't come back. Going to do a leakdown test on it and see what comes back, but it looks alright to put back together, maybe slam into the GF's e28. ...but it is a B25....so yeah, worth it? Thoughts?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3300_1):
Pull the valve cover off of it and try to torque the head bolts. If they spin, walk away unless you want to use it for scrap metal. If they don't spin, you might have a salvageable motor.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3300_2):
Originally posted by Rook12V Pull the valve cover off of it and try to torque the head bolts. If they spin, walk away unless you want to use it for scrap metal. If they don't spin, you might have a salvageable motor. Yup. I'd make something out of it. Tables, lamps, etc. Got a cool idea for a wine rack if bottles will fit. Could give it to the GF's mom for Christmas (she drives a Mercedes). But if it is good (I don't think it overheated) I'll see about salvaging it and slamming it into something.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3300_3):
Hey guys. similar situation to you, I managed to get my hands on a 0km m54b25 for free. i was wondering if anyone here had knowledge upon turning a b25 into a b30 given its possible?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3300_4):
I actually like the b25, I think its a decent motor and would go great with the e30 chassis. I know its not fast, but as a daily it would be pretty sweet. I love it in my Z3, even though I'll be upgrading to a b30 at some point.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3300_6):
If you're starting from nothing I can see the 3.0 being more appealing, but if you're getting a 2.5 for free or already have one its a nice upgrade for a e30.