QUESTION ID: 1962

QUESTION:
If you ever wanted to see what a Porsche Classic Radio looked like in an e30, well, here you go… Wants: - Apple Car play (yes I know the screen is smaller than the iPhone), but whatever - Something that sorta looked like it belonged in the car. I considered the Continental and Blaukpunkt units, but this is kinda of cooler. The Kenwood unit that was in here was straight out of the future… I also made use of the 2 empty dash panels next to the hazard/defrost switches, by adding in a USB charging port, and microphone for the radio. The Porsche unit has "Porsche" in the middle of the unit. My shop, Sound-in-Motion, in Boston removes the logo and installs these in non-Porsche cars with single DIN radios all the time... Parts list: Porsche Classic 1 Din radio: https://www.suncoastparts.com/product/SKUCLASSIC.html USB charging port: E30 USB Dash Module - Apple & Android Quick Charging 3.4A Max! https://falkmfg.com/collections/best-sellers/products/e30-quick-charge-usb-dash-module?variant=42954683908274 Plug and play with the 12v aux circuit. No soldering or crimping required. (12v aux port is still functional after installation). Compatible with Apple and Android quick charge protocols. Extremely high-quality construction & final assembly. Made in the USA, quality guaranteed. Made from a durable ASA polymer (UV resistant to avoid fading). Proven product with 5-star reviews. Clicks into place firm and flush (Removable design). Textured finished for a clean OEM look. Compatible in e24 e28 and e30 dashes. Properly crimped connections, quality control inspection, 28” silicone wiring harness. Every unit is tested before shipment and is backed by a 1-year warranty. e30 replica microphone: BMW radios (@bmwradios) • Instagram photos and videos https://www.instagram.com/bmwradios/ 5,569 Followers, 0 Following, 69 Posts - See Instagram photos and videos from BMW radios (@bmwradios) ​ ​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1962_1):
Originally posted by ZeKahr Wow, that actually sort of fits with the rest of the interior. Faceplate texture is a bit off, but still. Not a bad match for the interior Porsche designed the system for their old cars to match the interior, so fits surprisingly well. I saw one in an e36 once that looked nice too. The color of the faceplate looked better... but had the Porsche logo on, so I had the faceplate painted to remove the logo, which killed some of the finish a bit... Attached Files

ANSWER 2 (id: 1962_4):
Originally posted by sna77 huh? I’m showing what I did to my personal car and what parts I used. That’s literally what these forums are for… apologies. was under the impression you were connected to the business. i like the product.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1962_6):
Originally posted by NORBY Looks pretty cool! How do you find pressing the buttons on the screen etc? They look quite small but otherwise I think this is a great mod! Not too bad actually... i usually just enter an address in Google maps and put a playlist on spotify and go