QUESTION ID: 595

QUESTION:
Hi folks, Just added an e34 to my stable, and I’d like to do this to my e30 also if possible. I have a factory tape deck w a factory cd changer in. Trunk. Is there any way to add an aux input jack using the cd changer cable without losing my cd changer ? Some type of splitter or switch or something? I really like the oem stereo but I don’t have many casettes or cds left . I don’t want to use the cassette adapter if I do t have to. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 595_0):
You would be better off making use of the internal line level connectors for the tape deck, than your CD changer. Cut those wires from the tape deck, and use them as your AUX input. To use the AUX, you would just need to put a cassette into the tape deck to get the radio to switch over. Or better yet, if you have a CM5908/CM5907/CM5905, buy the bluetooth adapter user jaysterllng is selling on the forums or his website: 404 Not Found https://cantalouperadio.com/collections/products/products/mdeck-ba-2-bluetooth-retrofit-kit-for-bmw-cm5905-cm5907-cm5908 At Cantaloupe Radio, we engineer products to seamlessly integrate modern audio tech like Bluetooth audio streaming, phone calls, and voice assistance right into the OEM radios of emerging classic cars. Because let's face it - aftermarket, chromed-out head units are hideous.

ANSWER 2 (id: 595_1):
Oddly, I want to keep the tape deck working. the LCD on my deck is all gooey anyway - so I don't want to spend the coin on that fancy circuit board - although thats a very cool retrofit item.

ANSWER 3 (id: 595_3):
Originally posted by mc625569 Oddly, I want to keep the tape deck working. the LCD on my deck is all gooey anyway - so I don't want to spend the coin on that fancy circuit board - although thats a very cool retrofit item. If your cd-changer is using the old m-bus round connector, then you might be able to tap into the left and right channels, and use a dpdt switch to select between AUX and the cd changer. I'm pretty sure that system sent analog audio to the head unit.

ANSWER 4 (id: 595_6):
I think that the E30 setup is way too old for the GROM adapters. As mentioned above, tapping into the CD changer connector is probably easiest. It just takes the left/right analog signals, and you (I think) just need to switch one or two lines high/low to fool the tape deck into thinking the changer is there.