QUESTION ID: 1891

QUESTION:
Hello all, i'm a new member to this blog but have been a long time lurker. I'd been wanting to purchase a center console with a cassette box for a while and i found one in good condition and excitedly bought it in a hurry, only to realize that my center console has heated seat buttons and the new one does not. I'll post some pictures to make it more clear, but basically i'm looking for advice on how to accurately / precisely cut rectangle holes in the new console to fit the buttons in. I don't want to make the holes too big and end up with wiggly buttons. Any advice is appreciated, cheers

ANSWER 1 (id: 1891_0):
Place a piece of paper over your old console and carefully trace the location of the heated seat buttons. Make sure to get a couple edges so you can align the paper on the new console. Move the paper to the new console, align, and tape it down. Use a fresh razor blade to cut out the holes. Start undersized and trim more as needed to get the buttons to fit. Use a dremel on the back side to cut through any metal. Good luck!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1891_1):
I am pretty sure the heated seat switch holes are "marked" on the underside of the rear center console. At least they have been on several that I have had.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1891_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I have the early version and the bottom tray area is cut out to allow room for the tapes. So the cassette box can't simply be swapped without modification to the console. This makes sense and my mistake!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1891_11):
​ Finally found a pic online. It seems the center console is not just cut but it also has these clips to secure the tape holders. OP you can also see the template for the heated seat switches.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1891_2):
Originally posted by McGyver Place a piece of paper over your old console and carefully trace the location of the heated seat buttons. Make sure to get a couple edges so you can align the paper on the new console. Move the paper to the new console, align, and tape it down. Use a fresh razor blade to cut out the holes. Start undersized and trim more as needed to get the buttons to fit. Use a dremel on the back side to cut through any metal. Good luck! This honestly is a great idea, I think I’ll do this and cut the holes smaller on purpose and sand the edges until the buttons fit snug

ANSWER 6 (id: 1891_3):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I am pretty sure the heated seat switch holes are "marked" on the underside of the rear center console. At least they have been on several that I have had. If this is the case, should be even easier than I thought. I’ll be receiving the console in the mail tomorrow, I’ll post some pictures of the process once I’m done

ANSWER 7 (id: 1891_5):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I am pretty sure the heated seat switch holes are "marked" on the underside of the rear center console. At least they have been on several that I have had. Yes, the holes are marked on the inside.. I just did this last summer. The buttons will cover minor imperfections, but it pays to take your time.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1891_6):
Originally posted by Lippy Yes, the holes are marked on the inside.. I just did this last summer. The buttons will cover minor imperfections, but it pays to take your time. hi im working on it as i type this, its good to see someone else has done this. what did you use to cut it?

ANSWER 9 (id: 1891_7):
Originally posted by nadodude111 Can’t you just remove the cassette holder and put it in your current center console? No, it would take more cutting than the two window switches would.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1891_8):
Originally posted by reelizmpro No, it would take more cutting than the two window switches would. I’m confused. The cassette box is definitely removable. Ive had one. Just pull it out of the center console without the heated seat holes and install it in the center console with the heated seat holes. No cutting necessary. What am I missing?

ANSWER 11 (id: 1891_9):
Originally posted by nadodude111 I’m confused. The cassette box is definitely removable. Ive had one. Just pull it out of the center console without the heated seat holes and install it in the center console with the heated seat holes. No cutting necessary. What am I missing? I have the early version and the bottom tray area is cut out to allow room for the tapes. So the cassette box can't simply be swapped without modification to the console.