QUESTION ID: 456

QUESTION:
I was looking at the manual for my JL Audio C2-525​ component speakers and it recommends the speakers be spaced no more than 8” apart. I measured about 19” from the factory tweeter location to the mid speaker location in the kick panel. Will that have a big impact on the sound? Is there another place to mount them that would sound better? I’m not running rear deck speakers and using a JL 400RD/4 to run the front components and a JL 6w3v3 sub in the trunk.

ANSWER 1 (id: 456_0):
Yeah, that's why some people run custom setups and move the mid to the door or run a custom pod in the kick panel with a tweeter. Ideally, you'd want them close but is it worth the trouble getting custom pods? That's the question you need to ask yourself.

ANSWER 2 (id: 456_1):
It will sound different but whos to say it sounds worse. I just put the tweeters in my car on the dash board poking through the dash matt. Sounds alright to me. The only issue I had was that the tweeters were a bit loud up there, but the crossover had a couple of attenuation wiring configurations so i just quietened it down a bit like that.

ANSWER 3 (id: 456_2):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Yeah, that's why some people run custom setups and move the mid to the door or run a custom pod in the kick panel with a tweeter. Ideally, you'd want them close but is it worth the trouble getting custom pods? That's the question you need to ask yourself. I want it to look stock so no door pods or crazy mods. One of my friends suggested a dsp but maybe I'll set it up as-is and see how it sounds.

ANSWER 4 (id: 456_3):
Originally posted by e30davie It will sound different but whos to say it sounds worse. I just put the tweeters in my car on the dash board poking through the dash matt. Sounds alright to me. The only issue I had was that the tweeters were a bit loud up there, but the crossover had a couple of attenuation wiring configurations so i just quietened it down a bit like that. True. It's not for any competitions or anything and half of the time I don't listen to music and just enjoy the silence lol

ANSWER 5 (id: 456_4):
Yerp, I got some old JL VR600 in my car. Just having the tweeters higher than the OEM speakers just makes a huge difference regardless of where they are. just slap them in and start cruising. One of these days ill 3d print some oem tweeter pods in the door corners, but that complicates things with running wires into the doors. which isn't a big deal but argh tedious.

ANSWER 6 (id: 456_5):
Originally posted by e30davie Yerp, I got some old JL VR600 in my car. Just having the tweeters higher than the OEM speakers just makes a huge difference regardless of where they are. just slap them in and start cruising. One of these days ill 3d print some oem tweeter pods in the door corners, but that complicates things with running wires into the doors. which isn't a big deal but argh tedious. Thanks!