QUESTION ID: 1614

QUESTION:
Hey Guys.....this got no response on the “interior” sub forum hoping someone over here can help. https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=431440

ANSWER 1 (id: 1614_2):
Originally posted by E30andy Thanks Brutus. I have the elements, just trying to figure out the correct way to attach them to the seat foam. don't you just shove them in between the seams? Possibly with a paint stick?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1614_3):
audiquattrot....I took the seats completely apart so I have full access. I thought about just laying the elements on the foam but they will probably move and bunch up when I put the seat leather back on. I’m sure someone out there has had a heated seat apart and can comment on how these things are secured to the seat foam.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1614_4):
Audiquattrot already gave you the answer. The heating elements just slide in between the seams. There is a little sleeve that you take one element at a time a slide it the whole way in. I used a paint stick. This is the way you do it for the sport and comfort seat style. I don't know the procedure for convertible and M3 style seats.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1614_5):
Awesome thanks guys! Previous owner put cabrio sports seat in my ix. The stitching on the cabrio seats is different than coupe/sedan sport seats, it is perpendicular instead of lengthwise, so I will need to improvise a bit with the heating elements.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1614_6):
The convertible and M3 style seats have completely different heating elements. If you have sport or comfort seat elements(long 4 finger style) sell them and get the right kind for your seat. If you are just going to make something work get a generic heated seat set and install those elements instead. I bought a generic heated seat set and used those elements in my Recaro LX's. I bought a set of burnt out stock element for the connector and made a jumper to connect to stock wiring and aftermarket elements. And I just laid the aftermarket elements on the foam where I wanted them before putting the leather overtop.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1614_7):
Did not know that rzerob. Thanks for the info. I was going to try to make the non-cab heaters work in my cab seats. So doing some research on realoem, I get this part # for cabrio seat base heater.....64111376034. Interestingly it’s the same part # as for non cabrio cloth sport seats. Can’t find any pictures to confirm it’s the correct part, but fcp has it for $100, so will order tomorrow. Thanks again rzerob!