QUESTION ID: 175

QUESTION:
Hi folks! New here, former e46 325i daily driver. Currently dailying an ND2 Miata, and it's gotten me back into cars in a big way! Family now has the e46 but we also have an e60 with the N52. One thing I was thinking was maybe doing a project car, and a local pick and pull actually got an e30 that's being slowly stripped for parts. I was thinking of getting the chassis and using it as a base for an engine swap (I actually found this place because I was wondering what an e30 with an N52 is like), and I was curious what y'all thought would be the best way to judge the body for rust and other issues. Would it be cool for me to ask questions/share photos here to get feedback? (also general project car questions I keep mulling over like "where can I store this thing and all it's parts" lol) Thanks much!

ANSWER 1 (id: 175_0):
E30s has decent chassis rust protection unlike cars from the '60s and '70s. May want to check with the salvage yard as some states don't allow cars to be titled after they are sold to a breaker. There's also a project section you can post to when you get your project started.

ANSWER 2 (id: 175_1):
The last car I would get for a project car on an unfamiliar chassis is one that's halfway stripped. You don't know where anything goes, what is supposed to be where, and you'll probably nickel and dime yourself to death making it complete again. If you want an E30 project, get a decent and complete car, ideally one that actually runs and drives. I generally think it's better to have a rolling restoration than a project car that you've never driven and is also undriveable. Being able to drive it keeps motivation up, and also allows you to get a before/after perspective of your changes.

ANSWER 3 (id: 175_2):
uturn Ah gotcha; I had just heard so many nightmare things about the e30 and rusting that I figured rust-free e30s were extremely rare. My state (CA) does allow salvage cars to be retitled after they're repaired but that's a good check! And something I asked them when I first went there rturbo 930 Extremely valid concerns/suggestions! I have actually never even been in an e30 so I have no idea what they drive like. I'll keep my eyes open for a rolling/running one that I can resto. I think I mostly felt kinda sad that the salvage yard's e30's chassis did seem to be an good shape (went yesterday and took photos), and I figured with the engine swap, I'd just end up replacing a bunch of things on the car anyway