QUESTION ID: 1382

QUESTION:
Hey guys. So I've been a part of R3vlimited for a few weeks now and would visit before being a member as well for research on the car I bought today. This is when I first brought it home. Next I took it to a car wash where I used the power washer and car wash brush to get rid of all the dust on the car. Some background on the car. It was bought by a shop I used to work at to be flipped but the owner really liked the car and kept it in his storage. Fast forward 5 years to today and he is selling his vehicles to move to Florida and remembered how I admired the car. I currently drive a 94 325is that I take to him for repairs when it needs it or I can't handle it (I don't own a lift or time consuming jobs I pay them to do since I rely on the car.) knowing that I take good care of my car he asked me about the possibility of me purchasing it. I took advantage of the winter months saved up and today I picked it up. Put a battery in it and it started right up. I added 92 fuel with some injector cleaner just to burn off what ever little gas it had sitting in it. Also to my surprise the tittle shows I will be the second owner of the car which is pretty awesome to me. After the car wash I snapped a few pictures of the interior before digging into it. And then I scrubbed... As you can see it was pretty dirty. I wanted to snap more photos but it started getting dark and colder. I scrubbed all the panels inside tomorrow I will scrub seats and dash. Here's a photos of both my cars. X5 is the neighbors. Paint looks ok but nothing a good buff won't fix. Body is very very straight and no rust. I'm happy to say dash is also crack free! Rear window needs to be replaced. Power top is crippled. One of the gear casing for the top motor broke. The motor is good however trying to piece just the gear casing is becoming impossible. The motor for the latch however works well. I noticed it leaks a bit of oil and has a slight misfire. Tune up will definitely be very soon and will have to investigate the oil leak. It's wet at the bottom of the motor but no leaks from the top so that should help to figure it out. Well that's it for my introduction. Tomorrow I'll work on the car a bit more and soon I'll have it on the road. The little bit I've driven it has been awesome. Car drives like new. Very smooth. Hope to hear from you guys with tips and your thoughts!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1382_0):
Originally posted by DBShiznit Some background on the car. It was bought by a shop I used to work at to be flipped but the owner really liked the car and kept it in his storage. Fast forward 5 years to today and he is selling his vehicles to move to Florida and remembered how I admired the car. I currently drive a 94 325is that I take to him for repairs when it needs it or I can't handle it (I don't own a lift or time consuming jobs I pay them to do since I rely on the car.) knowing that I take good care of my car he asked me about the possibility of me purchasing it. I took advantage of the winter months saved up and today I picked it up. Great story about how you ended up with the car. It's great when good car enthusiast karma pays off (I've certainly had my share over the years). Originally posted by DBShiznit Here's a photos of both my cars. X5 is the neighbors. Nice stable! ;D As for some tips, you need to do is go find some Aerospace 303 and a windshield sunshade, then treat that mint dash along with the rest of the vinyl in your car to some quality protectant and shield the dash from any further sun direct exposure to keep it mint. When I park any of my cars outside for any extended period of time I cover the dash and the seats with towels or blankets to keep them from deteriorating. You should also pull that ridiculous duct tape off of the torn rear window and reseal it to keep water out of the interior. Looking forward to updates. ;)

ANSWER 2 (id: 1382_10):
Well today was fun! Cold sucked however. I decided to be productive and buff, polish and wax the car and I'm very happy that I did. This was my progress today. In some of the pictures you'll notice where it is dull compared to where I have touched it with a buffer. I tried to be thorough but the cold was not agreeing with my finger tips. Nonetheless I feel like I brought the exterior back to life and feel accomplished. Next to tackle will be the interior. Since the weather isn't great it gives me time to work on it and drive it when it's nice out. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1382_12):
Originally posted by mr2peak Looks awesome! Great job with the buffing. Much more motivating to work on a nice clean car. So true. Its nice to see it get progress as well I'm glad I'm taking enough pictures to document it all!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1382_13):
Originally posted by DBShiznit Rear window needs to be replaced. Power top is crippled. One of the gear casing for the top motor broke. The motor is good however trying to piece just the gear casing is becoming impossible. The motor for the latch however works well. Congrats on the car and progress. You can't replace the rear window, you'll have to do the entire top. Also, save yourself some headaches and convert to a manually operated top.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1382_2):
That looks pretty nice. Definitely nicer than what I started with! Replacing the timing belt should be at the very, very top of your to-do list. Car sitting that long, it's due.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1382_3):
Originally posted by Shock(/\)ave Great story about how you ended up with the car. It's great when good car enthusiast karma pays off (I've certainly had my share over the years). Nice stable! ;D As for some tips, you need to do is go find some Aerospace 303 and a windshield sunshade, then treat that mint dash along with the rest of the vinyl in your car to some quality protectant and shield the dash from any further sun direct exposure to keep it mint. When I park any of my cars outside for any extended period of time I cover the dash and the seats with towels or blankets to keep them from deteriorating. You should also pull that ridiculous duct tape off of the torn rear window and reseal it to keep water out of the interior. Looking forward to updates. ;) Thats awesome info! When I bought the e36 it came with a cover that I never use so the e30 will be using it when its parked to keep the sun out of the interior, although I will definitely look into the Aerospace 303 and keep a sun shade in the car whenever I have it out. I'm also installing UV protectant clear tint (if that makes any sense) A buddy of mine does window tinting and he said they make a clear film that still protects the vehicle from UV rays but you cant tell its there. This should also help with protecting the interior.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1382_4):
Originally posted by mr2peak Take a real buffer to the paint, it should clean up nicely. Also, don't every use a car was brush ever again! Go get literally anything else. Car brush was just for the first wash so that I could remove the dirt caked into the paint. It will give me a good start plus the car is getting a good buff so this on time wont hurt it. The car will never see a car wash brush again once it is buffed and looking new :D

ANSWER 8 (id: 1382_5):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem That looks pretty nice. Definitely nicer than what I started with! Replacing the timing belt should be at the very, very top of your to-do list. Car sitting that long, it's due. I thought the same but apparently between the car sitting the repair shop rebuilt the head new head gasket and timing belt. He said maybe two years ago since he intended to drive it with his wife.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1382_6):
Quick question related to the forum. When I try to reply through taptalk it wont let me and says I need to do the verification. Is there a way around this? Id like to be able to reply through the app, it also makes it easier to post photos that way.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1382_8):
Originally posted by DBShiznit I thought the same but apparently between the car sitting the repair shop rebuilt the head new head gasket and timing belt. He said maybe two years ago since he intended to drive it with his wife. At the very least Id inspect the timing belt. Sitting that long it might have started to crack