QUESTION ID: 3305

QUESTION:
So the a/c took a dump on my wife's car due to a leak (2006 Saab 9-2x aero 5mt). It has 100k miles on it so I would imagine the factory system is tired. Being a Subaru, parts are cheap. Since the system is depressurized I was planning on replacing the condenser(w/ drier), expansion valve, and all the seals. The evaporator is only $36 on rock auto. Should I replace it while I'm at it? What say you R3V?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3305_0):
I dont know jack about saab, but i always thought those years were more pontiac than subaru. Sometimes cheap parts at rock auto are just cheap parts that dont last very long. I like your diy approach, but just changing a lot of random parts doesnt always fix a problem. Do you know if the compressor is bad or not? Do you know if you have a freon leak? Do you have eqiipment to evacuate the system once you take it apart? I will say it is a good idea to change the dryer. I do recomend some troubleshooting first if you have not done so.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3305_1):
If the system is going to be opened up, you might as well...I would just make sure it's a good new part though. I had a bad dryer from there once were we didn't know unti after I charged the system...

ANSWER 3 (id: 3305_2):
I dont know jack about saab, but i always thought those years were more pontiac than subaru. Sometimes cheap parts at rock auto are just cheap parts that dont last very long. I like your diy approach, but just changing a lot of random parts doesnt always fix a problem. Do you know if the compressor is bad or not? Do you know if you have a freon leak? Do you have eqiipment to evacuate the system once you take it apart? I will say it is a good idea to change the dryer. I do recomend some troubleshooting first if you have not done so. Pontiac :) It's basically an '06 wrx. Fuji heavy industries all the way It's 100% a leak, the compressor is still good, and I have the equipment to pull a vacuum. I figured at 100K the evaporator probably has a bunch of crud in it. I'm going to hold onto this car for another 100k at least (one of 60 red aero manual 2006's)

ANSWER 4 (id: 3305_4):
unless the compressor burned up and threw ash around in your system, there should be no crud. the receiver/dryer is basically a filter to remove all the particulates from your system. i would say don't take a chance on a 30.00 rock auto china part. stick with what you have. change the dryer, fix the leak, evacuate the system. throw in new lubricant and freon and you should be good to go.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3305_5):
There should not be a bunch of crud in the evaporator since the AC system is a closed system. If it does, then it means your system has had a leak for a while now. If you're going to replace the seals at the evap then why not just pull the one you have out and clean it? You can always just blow compressed air through it to get any crud out if there is any, but youre probably fine.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3305_7):
Originally posted by Rugbyfan it's not like the evaporator is taking road debris like the condenser. By saying getting a bunch of crud inside I mean inside the system. The condenser should also not get a bunch of crud in it because it's all closed. It's not in contact with the atmosphere what so ever. Whenever you find crud in any component or line in the system that means there is a leak somewhere. Even if you think your AC is working normal and you cycle out oil or refrigerant and find contaminants then there is a leak somewhere.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3305_8):
Originally posted by spike68 By saying getting a bunch of crud inside I mean inside the system. The condenser should also not get a bunch of crud in it because it's all closed. It's not in contact with the atmosphere what so ever. Whenever you find crud in any component or line in the system that means there is a leak somewhere. Even if you think your AC is working normal and you cycle out oil or refrigerant and find contaminants then there is a leak somewhere. I got you. I'm talking about the condenser cooling fins getting bent and clogged from bugs and whatever else meets it's demise in the grill