QUESTION ID: 2718

QUESTION:
Pretty crazy.... https://www.roadandtrack.com/car-cul...-car-for-sale/

ANSWER 1 (id: 2718_10):
Originally posted by Ludwig https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxWhi2gRWLA That's impressive. Workmanship is on another level compared to the relatively hacky looking drift car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2718_2):
Drift car, meh. If it were a street car I'd be impressed, it's much easier to swap something when it is stripped and caged for the track and only requires basic functionality. You can hack away to make it fit and you don't have to worry about looks or resale or comfort.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2718_4):
Yer looks like a bit of a hack job. which is fine. But not the most technical achievement. Id like to see one that looks a bit more OEM. Those 1 series are cool and the early models are getting cheaper and cheaper. its tempting.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2718_5):
Originally posted by varg drift car, meh. If it were a street car i'd be impressed, it's much easier to swap something when it is stripped and caged for the track and only requires basic functionality. You can hack away to make it fit and you don't have to worry about looks or resale or comfort. +1

ANSWER 5 (id: 2718_6):
Originally posted by varg Drift car, meh. If it were a street car I'd be impressed, it's much easier to swap something when it is stripped and caged for the track and only requires basic functionality. You can hack away to make it fit and you don't have to worry about looks or resale or comfort. I'm with you on this but I still think its a cool combo.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2718_7):
I like it. At least it's a German engine. I'm calling it now, the e82 is going to be the platform that fills the shoes of the e30 for the next generation. Slicktop 6 speeds will hold their value, but I think all the base model automatics that eventually dip below $5k will be popular project cars to receive all kinds of engine swaps or turned into 1M clones.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2718_8):
Seeing this yesterday actually set me down a whole nother rabbit hole... My dream car is a 1M purely based on looks; the engine, however, is meh to me. I'm sure an engine swap would be a pain in the ass on those chassis, just because of the electronics associated, but it does seem doable and the e82's are decreasing in price. So now I'm thinking 1M replica from a 128i or 135i, and buy a parts car of either a 335D or e92 M3 since they are becoming affordable as well. Deisel or V8 powered 1er would be a dream. The M57 is easy to get a ton of power out of as well.. I think I could reasonably do either swap for less than the cost of decent 1M too.... Hmmm :p

ANSWER 8 (id: 2718_9):
Originally posted by varg Drift car, meh. If it were a street car I'd be impressed, it's much easier to swap something when it is stripped and caged for the track and only requires basic functionality. You can hack away to make it fit and you don't have to worry about looks or resale or comfort. i know it's nearly off topic, but have you seen this? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxWhi2gRWLA