QUESTION ID: 1672

QUESTION:
I know that as of last march he was closed to new orders because he was way behind on work and was trying to catch up, and apparently had over 4000 emails to catch up with because it was just him. That totally makes sense as a one-guy operation and I don't blame him but now his site is down entirely. It's a bummer, as I was wanting to get my mitts on one of his MAF conversions sometime soon-ish. Anybody talk to him recently? Hopefully he'll be back once he's caught up, but I'd be bummed out if the best MAF conversion on the market and some good chips went up in smoke to never return.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1672_0):
Originally posted by Maybe Magpie I know that as of last march he was closed to new orders because he was way behind on work and was trying to catch up, and apparently had over 4000 emails to catch up with because it was just him. That totally makes sense as a one-guy operation and I don't blame him but now his site is down entirely. It's a bummer, as I was wanting to get my mitts on one of his MAF conversions sometime soon-ish. Anybody talk to him recently? Hopefully he'll be back once he's caught up, but I'd be bummed out if the best MAF conversion on the market and some good chips went up in smoke to never return. he ended the maf conversions some time before choking up the rest of the operation. informed me he can't get the mafs that work any longer and does not want to try find another. i have one of his chips and was discussing a maf conversion in the future when he warned me it would not be possible. . if you want a maf now the only option is going to a standalone.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1672_1):
Originally posted by 82eye he ended the maf conversions some time before choking up the rest of the operation. informed me he can't get the mafs that work any longer and does not want to try find another. i have one of his chips and was discussing a maf conversion in the future when he warned me it would not be possible. .if you want a maf now the only option is going to a standalone. ugh, that sucks. i was able to easily find a MAF that'd work for my car listed on FCP euro by his guides on his wiki, i just needed the modules and hardware for the rest that he offered. i was hoping to do that + E36 injectors + chip in one swoop after my 5-speed swap (done) and suspension overhaul (impending). weren't there like several dozen MAFs that were viable? the big appeal to me of it was that it kept the stock ECU. when you say choked up, do you mean he's done-done or is he just head-down busting his ass on existing orders for the foreseeable future until stuff's worked out? if he's done-done it's a shame but he should offload the IP rights to an outfit that can make the damn conversion things again.​

ANSWER 3 (id: 1672_10):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop I had the version 1 of us his MAF Conversion and it was great, zero issues. He did updates to it as time went on. So the current version I have gave me issues. Issues that I tried to address with him, but in the end he blamed me in so many words. But after I swapped my AFM back on, all my bucking and hard starting issues went away. I never tried to get my money back or accuse him of any wrong doing I just wanted to help further the project. Along with giving him feedback on certain issues that I had came across. But we never got that far after that. But like I said I went with Jake's PNP and I have never looked back. Who's jake and what's his plug and play ECU? Got a link? tbh the economical price and ease of install and reversion was a big appeal of the SSSICK to me, as well as being able to pop M20 chips in without much fuss, and the much steeper price of fancier standalones is kinda rough. I def get the appeal but my goals are modest and fairly mild.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1672_11):
Originally posted by Maybe Magpie Who's jake and what's his plug and play ECU? Got a link? tbh the economical price and ease of install and reversion was a big appeal of the SSSICK to me, as well as being able to pop M20 chips in without much fuss, and the much steeper price of fancier standalones is kinda rough. I def get the appeal but my goals are modest and fairly mild. BMW E30 M20 M30 Plug and Play Standalone ECU https://www.classicdaily.net/products/bmw-e30-m20-plug-and-play-ecu?srsltid=AfmBOoob4MuexQxXwRB4jcg2MNtcwDWKx8FOFjZMr_ptYu1iF6YcT0gO

ANSWER 5 (id: 1672_12):
Originally posted by Maybe Magpie Who's jake and what's his plug and play ECU? Got a link? tbh the economical price and ease of install and reversion was a big appeal of the SSSICK to me, as well as being able to pop M20 chips in without much fuss, and the much steeper price of fancier standalones is kinda rough. I def get the appeal but my goals are modest and fairly mild. Why don't you email Jake and ask him about what he is offering. I'll include the contact area of the website below. Jake is also apart of this forum jakeb Contact Us https://www.classicdaily.net/pages/contact-us .

ANSWER 6 (id: 1672_13):
Originally posted by Maybe Magpie Who's jake and what's his plug and play ECU? Got a link? tbh the economical price and ease of install and reversion was a big appeal of the SSSICK to me, as well as being able to pop M20 chips in without much fuss, and the much steeper price of fancier standalones is kinda rough. I def get the appeal but my goals are modest and fairly mild. Me personally would go the standalone route. It's affordable and it will allow you to grow into other mods if you wish. It doesn't matter if you low goals right now. My car runs so smooth with his setup.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1672_2):
Originally posted by Maybe Magpie ugh, that sucks. i was able to easily find a MAF that'd work for my car listed on FCP euro by his guides on his wiki, i just needed the modules and hardware for the rest that he offered. i was hoping to do that + E36 injectors + chip in one swoop after my 5-speed swap (done) and suspension overhaul (impending). weren't there like several dozen MAFs that were viable? there may have been at one point. from what i understand, there were mafs that produced the correct signal, but fewer that could be physically modified, cut down etc, and issues with the number of pins on the different mafs wiring, and available connectors. probably just backed away from the diy side. they did offer a package with maf, which was what i was looking for, but it was suspended just before i got my chip. Originally posted by Maybe Magpie ​ the big appeal to me of it was that it kept the stock ECU. same here Originally posted by Maybe Magpie ​ when you say choked up, do you mean he's done-done or is he just head-down busting his ass on existing orders for the foreseeable future until stuff's worked out? if he's done-done it's a shame but he should offload the IP rights to an outfit that can make the damn conversion things again.​ pretty sure he's go the same issues everyone else does. back inventory sold fast over covid, and the supply chain chunked up. since then, most of the focus has shifted, and both the supply and quality of the chips is screwed.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1672_3):
I have one of his conversions if anyone is interested. I had a not so good experience with him toward the end and I have since gone standalone. 82eye Maybe Magpie

ANSWER 9 (id: 1672_4):
I've had poor experiences recently with MAFs for later BMWs. The 'these have always been good' parts... are not so good any more. t #waffles clouds, get out of my sky!

ANSWER 10 (id: 1672_5):
I had the version 1 of us his MAF Conversion and it was great, zero issues. He did updates to it as time went on. So the current version I have gave me issues. Issues that I tried to address with him, but in the end he blamed me in so many words. But after I swapped my AFM back on, all my bucking and hard starting issues went away. I never tried to get my money back or accuse him of any wrong doing I just wanted to help further the project. Along with giving him feedback on certain issues that I had came across. But we never got that far after that. But like I said I went with Jake's PNP and I have never looked back.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1672_6):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop I went with Jake's PNP and I have never looked back. i think most of us thinking about a maf conversion are going this way eventually. local shop keeps trying to sell me on a haltech, but they don't support anything for e30 except in australia for some reason. the cost to bring it over, install, and have the shop dyno and tune it in is beyond stupid.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1672_7):
I think I see the benefit of a nicer enthusiast tier standalone - Link/Haltech/ECUmaster/MaxxECU. Things have come a ways since MS2/3/3x came out. The only thing that's changed with MS is the price. Speeduino based stuff is cool too, but I lump it in the same group as MS. I want all the fancy bells and whistles and easy setup of the new stuff - CAN expansion, e-throttle, 1kHz logging, nice connectors/pins, PMU/PDMs etc. It's just hard to justify when you have a working setup that does basically everything but that.

ANSWER 13 (id: 1672_8):
Originally posted by 82eye i think most of us thinking about a maf conversion are going this way eventually. local shop keeps trying to sell me on a haltech, but they don't support anything for e30 except in australia for some reason. the cost to bring it over, install, and have the shop dyno and tune it in is beyond stupid. Plus Jake is an extremely helpful guy. He responds to emails quickly. His setup is very affordable (IMO). And he is right here in the states.

ANSWER 14 (id: 1672_9):
Originally posted by Northern I think I see the benefit of a nicer enthusiast tier standalone - Link/Haltech/ECUmaster/MaxxECU. Things have come a ways since MS2/3/3x came out. The only thing that's changed with MS is the price. Speeduino based stuff is cool too, but I lump it in the same group as MS. I want all the fancy bells and whistles and easy setup of the new stuff - CAN expansion, e-throttle, 1kHz logging, nice connectors/pins, PMU/PDMs etc. It's just hard to justify when you have a working setup that does basically everything but that. The problem with all those companies you mentioned is that they don't cater to the M20. I'm sure there are work arounds and some may dabble a little bit (mostly outside the US). I really hate that the go to for E30 mods is to pull out the M20. I'm not against swaps, I love cool engine swaps. But the M20 is a great engine that needs love too. I think it's starting to get some attention again though.