QUESTION ID: 1325

QUESTION:
I have been looking at threads about where to buy but most are old threads. Where do I buy a new top and can get a tinted rear window (not the green oem tinted window)?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1325_0):
Try googling emiata, I’ve been trying source a zipper in window and I think they had a slightly tinted option. So maybe they will have what ur looking for

ANSWER 2 (id: 1325_1):
I got mine from emiata. Its still holding up great after four years, I didn't get the tinted one though. Just make sure you have a zip in one, the very first convertibles had sew in windows. There's a hard to read link you press for the zip in type: New BMW E30 Convertible Rear Window: $79 http://www.emiata.com/E30Window.asp Replacement BMW E30 Convertible Top Window. 318i, 325i, Rear Vinyl Windows. Original BMW Zippers with New Plastic.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1325_2):
Originally posted by rzmoser I got mine from emiata. Its still holding up great after four years, I didn't get the tinted one though. Just make sure you have a zip in one, the very first convertibles had sew in windows. There's a hard to read link you press for the zip in type: http://www.emiata.com/E30Window.asp I've honestly never seen an E30 convertible with a zip in. Was the zip in OEM? Both of my '88's have had sew in's but I'd convert if I can.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1325_4):
Originally posted by Das Delfin ^ the late model e30 tops had zip in windows Thanks. Do you happen to know if late model tops can be used on the early models?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1325_5):
Originally posted by Mastrcruse Thanks. Do you happen to know if late model tops can be used on the early models? Yes, the frame is the same so any new fabric you buy will come with a zipper. Another option would be to find someone parting out a convertible with a nice top. The whole frame is held in with a few bolts. Or, if your top is in good shape it might be worth it to do the sew in window that emiata also sells, but it seems like something that would make it worth it to replace the whole top. If you haven't seen these three videos on YouTube yet they're worth checking out. Part 2 and 3 have all the information about adjusting the top, and how to replace the fabric: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M0G6FsYeY5g

ANSWER 6 (id: 1325_6):
Originally posted by rzmoser Yes, the frame is the same so any new fabric you buy will come with a zipper. Another option would be to find someone parting out a convertible with a nice top. The whole frame is held in with a few bolts. Or, if your top is in good shape it might be worth it to do the sew in window that emiata also sells, but it seems like something that would make it worth it to replace the whole top. If you haven't seen these three videos on YouTube yet they're worth checking out. Part 2 and 3 have all the information about adjusting the top, and how to replace the fabric: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M0G6FsYeY5g Thanks. The top seems to be in good shape but is missing some thread on one of the side to side stitching in the front and I haven't spared a dime on this car so a new top is probably the way to go. Anyone know of a company that sells new zip in window tops?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1325_7):
Most, if not all the aftermarket companies will have sewn-in windows. The genuine BMW tops are zip in. There's nothing really wrong about going with a sewn-in window since you'll be replacing with new anyway.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1325_8):
I replaced my top completely with a OE top that had a bad zip in window. Emiata was local to me so I did a will call for a non tinted zip in. It wasn't a huge pain to get right and I used 3M 1357 high temp contact cement to seal the flap. 5 or so years and it's still like new and while I now wish I had gotten the tinted one, being in Florida now I use my hardtop in the summer and in winter the soft top rarely comes up