QUESTION ID: 3400

QUESTION:
I have a thread started in the M42 subforum but that area doesn't get much traffic and I need an answer ASAP. I bought and am installing a G240 Valeo single mass flywheel clutch. Well there was a little marring on the pressure plate, but I feel fairly confident that will go away. What bothers me is that there is a small chip on the edge of the clutch disk. Would you install this? I don't know if this is a problem, and I really don't want to have to drop the transmission again to replace the clutch in a month. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 3400_2):
It's on the flywheel side. I talked to two guys at autozone. The both sounded like it would be ok to run it but I still am hesitant. I don't want to install it and then it break and then I'm out my dollaz. But I'm also in a time crunch as I need the car back running Sunday.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3400_3):
looks like someone dropped it on the concrete floor. i think its ok. ftw....the last place in the world i would go to ask for mechanical advice would be o'riley's. the second to last place i would ask is auto zone.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3400_4):
Well there was some pressure plate marring when I received the parts too. Maybe they just didn't care when they were packing it. And this is very true, that's why I'm hesitant still but they didn't seem completely incompetent. Worst case it explodes into thousands of little pieces and Ill complain later about it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3400_5):
If it's a new part, I'd just return it and get another one. If you bought it at AutoZone and the guys there think "it will be ok" - then they can swap it over and put it back on the shelf for someone else.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3400_6):
I just took it there because it's close. I ordered the part from Amazon directly from Valeo. I'd really like to have the car finished by Sunday and swapping it would put it about 5 days later. It's my daily and I'm mostly dependent on it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3400_8):
The risk you run when putting that back on your car is it further degrading and at a minimum you could be doing the same job again in short order. I'd replace. If it came from valeo like that then they should be more than willing to exchange it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3400_9):
From experience it will work just fine. This is similar to installing a brake pad that has a less than perfect edge. It doesn't cause any problems. The clutch will wear in normally and you won't notice a difference.