QUESTION ID: 340

QUESTION:
im new to the e30's but im looking to fab up a custom suspension set-up which might include an air ride suspension. in order to do this, i need a diagram to show to the mechanic guy. i found a really good diagram of the front suspension, but now i need one for the rear. so if anybody had like a bentley's manual type diagram or a link to where i can get one, that would be awesome. thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 340_10):
Do it man, I want to see it. Who cares if air bags don't perform great, you obviously aren't looking for that. Don't be someone that gets on here and asks a question, and then never carries it out. Git er done and post some pics of it slammed.

ANSWER 2 (id: 340_11):
it will be done w/ in the next couple months for sure. and like i said, im not worried about tracking the car or anything. and it is a 318i, but it will have an s50 in it. im also not worried about laying frame or anything or even tucking the wheels like crazy. yall can hate all you want, i was just asking for some help. thanks.

ANSWER 3 (id: 340_2):
Url bmwe30.net http://www.bmwe30.net/cgi-bin/datacgi/database.cgi?file=articles&report=view&ID=00086&Section=05 It looks really easy to do an air suspension on the rear but it eludes me as to why anyone would want do it. Wait! Maybe your user name is a clue. I get it - it's that thing where you pull in and park and then the car drops to the ground. Reminds of Roy Roger's horse "Trigger" that used to kneel like a camel so you get on easier.

ANSWER 4 (id: 340_3):
Remove spring, cut off lower nub, install bag mounts, run lines... E30 would be pretty simple to air ride, 2 air struts up front, 2 bags in the rear. A honda air cyclinder would probably fit up front, and back is easy as hell.

ANSWER 5 (id: 340_4):
Originally posted by 808BMW Remove spring, cut off lower nub, install bag mounts, run lines... E30 would be pretty simple to air ride, 2 air struts up front, 2 bags in the rear. A honda air cyclinder would probably fit up front, and back is easy as hell. Pretty much. But I dont think and e30 would lay all that well.

ANSWER 6 (id: 340_5):
thanks for the information guys. i just needed to get him a diagram cuz he hasnt seen the car yet and he is researching prices for me. he has never put bags on a bmw before, so its new to him but he is more than capable. and the reason i want bags is because the roads where im gonna be moving suck bad, and i still want the lowered look but want to be able to raise it up if i need to. i know most of yall dont care about looks and would rather have the performance, but i like both, probably more looks.

ANSWER 7 (id: 340_9):
Ditto, I wanna see it, but I already have a fuh raze expensive suspension setup and dont want an air ride on my car. A kitted e30 would "lay" with bags quite well... maybe not lay frame, but I'm sure you could get that thing dragging some fiberglass.