QUESTION ID: 372

QUESTION:
I have always read that the cabrio has different suspension. I am doing a 5 lug swap later with E36 components, and I need to know what the differences are. Does anyone want to share? thanks, Joey

ANSWER 1 (id: 372_1):
Yeah I am all done. No differences. SWap away on cabbys. THey look sick in 5 lug... so deos everything else. Not to mention 13" brake rotor compatability!

ANSWER 2 (id: 372_11):
Originally posted by Jordan So you used the halfass 318Ti setup didnt you lol. I suppose you are using e36 springs as well. I searched for M roadster arms, and found none. If I ever need more rear brake fade resistance... I will swap to M arms when I can find them. so... YES, I have the half ass 318ti setup. The one without the extra hub armature bracing (like the bracing E30 arms don't have), and with the small, non-vented brakes (which are bigger than factory E30 brakes). Why is this halfass again? I know it is lame compared to big vented rear brakes... and doesn't have the unnecessary gussets on the arms... is that the only reason why it is halfass? Yup. E36 springs. I will probably get about 100 miles on them too! then I will switch to coilovers. I just had to get it rolling, so I spent $100 on E36 springs and struts... part of my $910 project.

ANSWER 3 (id: 372_13):
Originally posted by Jordan What coil overs are you going with? A GOOD coilover setup is going to add $1k+ to that bottom line. Yeah I am aware of that. I would really like to find a set that doesn't have threaded shock bodies for the spring perch, but for the hub mounts instead. You gain the advantage of always having the same shock travel, while still having ride height and corner weight adjustment. I hven't seen a set like that for E30s though. You can easily find them for nissans... Are you satisfied with your cupkit?

ANSWER 4 (id: 372_5):
Originally posted by Jordan e36 front suspension used for 5lug sucks. Do it right. Ok. Now run and tell everyone else who did it for 20% of the cost of yours how dumb they are too.

ANSWER 5 (id: 372_6):
Originally posted by E30SRPower Originally posted by Jordan e36 front suspension used for 5lug sucks. Do it right. Ok. Now run and tell everyone else who did it for 20% of the cost of yours how dumb they are too. I did over a month of research. I priced everything out. My method is better, gives me PROPER geometry, and was FAR CHEAPER. You are a ignorant fuck, get out of my face.

ANSWER 6 (id: 372_7):
Originally posted by Jordan Originally posted by E30SRPower Originally posted by Jordan e36 front suspension used for 5lug sucks. Do it right. Ok. Now run and tell everyone else who did it for 20% of the cost of yours how dumb they are too. I did over a month of research. I priced everything out. My method is better, gives me PROPER geometry, and was FAR CHEAPER. You are a ignorant fuck, get out of my face. Damn dude... take it easy. I thought our banter was in fun. I didn't realize you were breaking a sweat over it. Wanna PM me and let me know how much you spent? I am curious... I did mine for what I thought was pretty cheap... But I may be wrong. Also, are you implying that the geometry of the E36 swap is unacceptable? What part of it is changed? I have got a negligible decrease in castor from stock, but my castor and camber are within specs. I never looked into the bump steer or tie rod arc geometry because I thought there would complaints from all of the people who have done E36 swaps if there were problems.

ANSWER 7 (id: 372_8):
I spent $1,100 for my FULL conversion. This also included alot of parts I didn't *really need* Like 2x new front e36 M3 rotors, 4x caliper rebuild kits, 2x pad sets, paint for the calipers etc. The caster on the e36 front suspension is horrid. Even with offset 96+ M3 CA's and milled/slotted THR eyeball arms the wheel is STILL not within stock specs. The camber on the front is also messed up. No where near the correct camber for the ride height. 90% of the people on this board doing the e36 5lug swap are doing it because they are ignorant and cheap. Not because they have any idea of what they are doing.

ANSWER 8 (id: 372_9):
Originally posted by Jordan I spent $1,100 for my FULL conversion. This also included alot of parts I didn't *really need* Like 2x new front e36 M3 rotors, 4x caliper rebuild kits, 2x pad sets, paint for the calipers etc. The caster on the e36 front suspension is horrid. Even with offset 96+ M3 CA's and milled/slotted THR eyeball arms the wheel is STILL not within stock specs. The camber on the front is also messed up. No where near the correct camber for the ride height. 90% of the people on this board doing the e36 5lug swap are doing it because they are ignorant and cheap. Not because they have any idea of what they are doing. My front wheels are both a quarter inch behind from stock. A rough and conservative (for my argument) measurment yieldied 23" from upper pivot (strut bearing) to lower pivot (lower ball joint). A difference of one quarter inch will change castor by .62º. I would consider that negligable, when castor is in the neighborhood of 9º stock. I would be happy with anything over 7.5º provided there were no clearance issues. My camber is at 0º right now while I am lowered about 2 inches. I am planning on getting some negative camber by using camber plates. That is dirt cheap for using E30 M3 parts. I had a total on my reciepts at $910. I had a few extras like porterfield brake pads, stud conversion, E46 front brakes... But you have better brakes than me in the rear.