QUESTION ID: 564

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, So I've recently sold my SV650s with intentions of getting collector plates on the e30. I'm mostly confident it'll pass, with the exception of the stereo head unit. The car was completely re-wired by the PO when he had some gaudy chrome colored stereo added in the late 90's so there's almost no way I can go back to the stock BMW deck without tearing the car apart and re-wiring it to the parallel system BMW used. Since then I've changed the head unit to a newer Sony one that doesn't look as bad (sometime around 2010). Problem is, I'm not sure it'll pass the regulations for antique plates in my province. According to the regulations, they allow: "-an era correct aftermarket radio/CD player (model year vehicles 1987 and newer may have era correct CD players) - upgrade your radio and speakers with modern functionality as long as they are visually indistinguishable from the radio and speaker system originally installed". I know there's a few Continental decks that's close, but from a google search of what they look like in an e30, doesn't make me too confident. I'd prefer something with an AUX jack and/or USB so I can at least play MP3's (yeah I know, I'm old school like that lol). I've considered hittin up ebay, but not sure I wanna go used, unless it's NOS (new old stock). thanks in advance

ANSWER 1 (id: 564_0):
What's the benefit of getting collector plates, and do they regularly check to see that your car qualifies? I'd just stick an old deck in, take some pics, and swap in whatever you want afterwards. Sounds like they don't let you do a damn thing to your car, so fuck all of that.

ANSWER 2 (id: 564_1):
I usually do a mid 90s blaupunkt deck that has aux in. A little searching and you can get them for $50. IE: https://www.ebay.com/itm/Blaupunkt-R...from=R40&rt=nc double check that it has Aux in with the diagram on top and make sure it's amber vs green illumination. good luck Julien

ANSWER 3 (id: 564_11):
Here in Oregon the only stipulations for classic car plates is it being 25 years or older (or a pass given by a registered car club) and that you can only drive it like 3000 miles a year. Then it can only be driven to and from shows, races, mechanics shops, or test and tunes. That test and tune or shows leaves it pretty open ended and they never check anything. It was cheaper to register mine this way and I don't have to do emissions anymore which is nice.

ANSWER 4 (id: 564_13):
When you ask about BT - you really should look into the different versions, the new one is good. The old stuff is crap (like even a non-"audiphile" can hear it)

ANSWER 5 (id: 564_2):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 What's the benefit of getting collector plates, and do they regularly check to see that your car qualifies? I'd just stick an old deck in, take some pics, and swap in whatever you want afterwards. Sounds like they don't let you do a damn thing to your car, so fuck all of that. Drastically reduced insurance. but the downside is you can't daily drive the car (I don't mind, as my daily I only use for groceries anyway). They do allow a few mods like an inch larger/wider wheels than stock (I have some late 80s/early 90s 15x7 Oz Fittipaldi Indy's I need tires for) and aside from that she's totally stock and currently rolling on stock 14 inch e30 steel wheels with BMW hubcaps. Trust me, I've considered doing the "swap" thing, but I've heard stories around here of ppl getting in accidents with collector plates and once insurance realized the deck in the application was different from what was with the application (you have to submit paper pics on glossy paper with the application) their insurance was denied.

ANSWER 6 (id: 564_3):
The Continental TR7412UB-OR is probably your best bet for a radio with modern functionality baked in. The only change you might want to make would be removal of the USB port indicator. From experience the built in mic even offers decent voice quality.

ANSWER 7 (id: 564_4):
Originally posted by roguetoaster The Continental TR7412UB-OR is probably your best bet for a radio with modern functionality baked in. The only change you might want to make would be removal of the USB port indicator. From experience the built in mic even offers decent voice quality. i have a continental in mine and i love it. I got the one with CD, FM/AM, bluetooth, and the usb up front with the orange backlight. it has a connection for a mic as well as aux cord although i don't use either. looks somewhat period correct (better than anything else out there IMO) and the sound is good. it didn't come with a harness or any connectors so I had to track one down that worked off amazon (search: DKMUS DKMUS Universal ISO Car Radio Wire Cable Wiring Harness Stereo Adapter Connector Adaptor Plug Power and Loudspeaker Female)

ANSWER 8 (id: 564_5):
My buddy and I have been throwing Becker's in our late model cars. They are a factory BMW radio, look fairly stock, sound great, have aux in, and can be found for reasonable amount. You can also customize the LCD display. Look for the Grand Prix, Indianapolis or Indianapolis Pro.

ANSWER 9 (id: 564_6):
What's the point of regulating your stereo? Seems like something a concourse would be more interested in. Do they cover restomod muscle cars that have had their entire suspensions redesigned? What do they say about keeping an original radio in the stock location, but a newer one hidden in the glove box, like most muscle car owners do? I mention muscle cars because they're the most common type of classic car in north america

ANSWER 10 (id: 564_7):
Thanks for the replies guys. Ok, so I think I'm going to pull the trigger on the Conti deck. For those of you who have this, I have a couple of important (to me) questions: 1. What make and model of USB stick do you use? Last time I bought a deck with USB in 2010 (a Sony) most of the memory sticks I have, are not compatible. Only after owning it for a few years did I realize there was a limited list of USB sticks compatible with the deck, listed in the owners manual. By this point, all of the sticks were either obsolete or only available out of Europe And by that time I was sick of trying to burn CD's. Since these decks do not have CD/MP3 players, I find this much more important. 2. Lighting. I understand these have the orange backlighting which I really appreciate. On some of the Porsche sites, I see that the deck's lighting is paired with the car's lighting (as you turn on the park or headlights, the radio will also light up). Is that the case with installing it on the e30? It's not a deal breaker, just curious. thanks in advance.

ANSWER 11 (id: 564_8):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella Thanks for the replies guys. Ok, so I think I'm going to pull the trigger on the Conti deck. For those of you who have this, I have a couple of important (to me) questions: 1. What make and model of USB stick do you use? Last time I bought a deck with USB in 2010 (a Sony) most of the memory sticks I have, are not compatible. Only after owning it for a few years did I realize there was a limited list of USB sticks compatible with the deck, listed in the owners manual. By this point, all of the sticks were either obsolete or only available out of Europe And by that time I was sick of trying to burn CD's. Since these decks do not have CD/MP3 players, I find this much more important. 2. Lighting. I understand these have the orange backlighting which I really appreciate. On some of the Porsche sites, I see that the deck's lighting is paired with the car's lighting (as you turn on the park or headlights, the radio will also light up). Is that the case with installing it on the e30? It's not a deal breaker, just curious. thanks in advance. 1. dont use a usb stick so can't help you there. i dug out all my old cds and just use that or bluetooth. 2. stereo lights are linked to the headlights. with the connector i mentioned in a prior post. I have the orange as well and its a pretty good match.

ANSWER 12 (id: 564_9):
Gotcha, thanks for the info. Decided to pull the trigger on the Continental TR7412UB-OR. Found a seller in Germany with a good rep on ebay. Also picked up a set of the twist it connectors since I don't want mess with crimp connectors and find soldering can be kinda messy. Posi-Products™ Car Stereo Wiring Harness Connectors https://www.crutchfield.com/p_669PP500/Posi-Products-Car-Stereo-Wiring-Harness-Connectors.html 16 Posi-Twist&trade; wiring connectors: makes it easy to splice your new car stereo's wiring to the vehicle harness Now to find a good USB drive for the stereo that'll take my music. thanks again!