QUESTION ID: 3231

QUESTION:
If you guys could, can you please answer a short survey about the website? https://goo.gl/forms/xvVPYAk2TbYSoS0E2 I'm really excited to announce my current project. It's called Enthusio. Enthusio is a marketplace for innovators in the car community. We've partnered with some of the biggest custom e30 brands to give the user the best experience possible. The idea behind it is simple - it's hard to find custom car parts that are made by people who know what enthusiasts need. So we put them all in one place. This should not only help enthusiasts, but should also help the makers. It raises brand awareness and gives makers a place they can go to when they are launching products. You can check out the website at: www.enthus.io I'd love to hear your feedback, leave a comment below. Here are some of the products we have on the marketplace right now:

ANSWER 1 (id: 3231_0):
Damn that looks pretty good. Solid 10-20x the selection from earlier this week when you posted the unlaunched site in Norcal chat. Got any sales yet? Any plans to incorporate product/seller reviews and such?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3231_1):
Originally posted by Vivek Damn that looks pretty good. Solid 10-20x the selection from earlier this week when you posted the unlaunched site in Norcal chat. Got any sales yet? Any plans to incorporate product/seller reviews and such? damn! i haven't seen you post anything in....forever. welcome back.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3231_2):
Originally posted by Vivek Damn that looks pretty good. Solid 10-20x the selection from earlier this week when you posted the unlaunched site in Norcal chat. Got any sales yet? Any plans to incorporate product/seller reviews and such? Thanks! Yeah we got some sales today along with around 500 individual users so far. As far as seller reviews go, this is already incorporated, after a product is bought you have an option to leave a review. Originally posted by Julien Mercades - lol LOLLL

ANSWER 4 (id: 3231_3):
Nice looking site, and great idea! At least now I know exactly who to complain to when the parts fail! (Just kidding) ...but seriously, great idea and I might have to set up a seller account at some point. I am looking at reproducing on small runs some NLA items.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3231_4):
I got your PM but hadn't had a chance to look at it. Looks like a great start! Do you only support parts sellers? how about services? I don't really make anything these days (I still think I made the prettiest adapters, but they take a long time to make) - mostly I do software flashes.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3231_5):
Originally posted by flyboyx damn! i haven't seen you post anything in....forever. welcome back. Thanks man! I still come around occasionally, mostly just in the California regional chat though. College is busy

ANSWER 7 (id: 3231_6):
Originally posted by djjerme Nice looking site, and great idea! At least now I know exactly who to complain to when the parts fail! (Just kidding) ...but seriously, great idea and I might have to set up a seller account at some point. I am looking at reproducing on small runs some NLA items. That sounds awesome! I think it will really help people like you get good exposure to a larger audience than you normally would. The idea is to help people just like you, who are making good custom stuff for our cars. Originally posted by nando I got your PM but hadn't had a chance to look at it. Looks like a great start! Do you only support parts sellers? how about services? I don't really make anything these days (I still think I made the prettiest adapters, but they take a long time to make) - mostly I do software flashes. Right now I only support part sellers however, if you have an idea of what you might want as far as support for services, let me know - we may be able to set something up. If you do make anything again, we'd love to see your stuff up there!

ANSWER 8 (id: 3231_7):
I still have parts for adapters. Actually, part of why I stopped because I started to get severe pain in my right hand from crimping so many pins.. I've literally done thousands. :( it's easier to type. lol

ANSWER 9 (id: 3231_8):
Originally posted by nando I still have parts for adapters. Actually, part of why I stopped because I started to get severe pain in my right hand from crimping so many pins.. I've literally done thousands. :( it's easier to type. lol I was starting to get really bad pain in my right hand from cutting out so many cupholder bottoms too. Need some kind of auto crimper haha