QUESTION ID: 464

QUESTION:
My plan is to take a couple of 5.25" premium speakers that I purchased and swap out the 4" (3.5"?) in the Nokia boxes in the back of my touring; they are really terrible even in good condition. The bummer is that with the grills removed, the speakers barely do not fit by 1/4". That means that the side panels will have to come out. I will be able to remove the whole speaker box for the install thought, so I will be able to do a neater job. I made patterns and have confirmed that, with a larger hole cut into the boxes, the 5.25" speakers should fit nicely. I am hoping that this is a cheap way to vastly improve sound in the back of the wagon. Without a sub amp and a huge outlay of money on more modern speakers which require additional wiring, sound will never be really that good, but better will be welcomed. Swapping the cheapo speakers in the kick panels for the premiums made a big difference. Eventually I will add the tweeters in the door sail panels. Anything I am not thinking of? What could go wrong? Both speakers are 4 ohms, 15w going out, 40w going in. Wiring seems identical. More wattage, but still not very much. Anyone see any potential problems that I am not seeing?​

ANSWER 1 (id: 464_0):
Before: After: I went ahead a bit blindly. Worked out fine. Premium speakers are taller, so I had to cut a hole in the bottom of the box to accommodate the magnet, in addition to the large hole in the top. Really tight fit. If you do this, make a template and take your time. Ain't ever going to be a hifi system, though the sound is 100% richer and deeper. Well worth the effort. I can crank the sound up with little distortion. Both the 15w Nokias and the new 40w premiums work well on the same wiring. I did have to knock down the end of the soldiered wire and open the connector up a bit to it slide on. Everything fit under the panels and the speaker grills so the mod is heard but not seen. Attached Files

ANSWER 2 (id: 464_1):
Hey Benfidar, Thanks for the post and details regarding this speaker upgrade. I’m currently taking my rear interior apart to get to my rear suspension, and thought it would make sense to upgrade the speakers too. Was surprised how small they were, but will be following your lead to upgrade my speakers. Do you have a link to the speakers you used? I want to compare dimensions to ensure the new speakers I go with fit. Cheers, Andres