QUESTION ID: 1957

QUESTION:
I have been sick and now after a long road and some surgery I am on the mend. I see there are prices of reproduction body kits but does that lower the value of an original. My new old stock oem mtech 2 front valance with all the clips and brake ducts was planned to be offered with the sale of my one E30 along with some other things. But now I am considering just selling everything separately. Sold is the price selling for the E30's posted in the classifieds, which does not give me any idea of what the price i should be asking. E30's are not in the classifieds like they use to be. In 2017 it was averaging 10k to 13k can i get some feedback for a rough estimate on what i should be asking? 1991 325i 115,xxx miles, s50 swapped, zf310, 3.46 lsd, working ac, sport seats, 5 lug swapped, CA tuned coil overs, rust free, clean title and all I can think of offhand. new, unpainted, old stock mtech 2 valance with all the and everything needed but the template. 15" bbs RF's, four lug. I might put these up for sale by the end of the summer. It depends on how much I can get done as I am still recovering and can only do so much in a day. If this is in the wrong section, can one of the admins help me out? Typing kills my hands and the muscles in them are constantly affected my condition.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1957_0):
I would suggest the Bring A Trailer auction website to get some ideas on price. Additionally there is a discussion thread on here that 2man keeps updated with BAT listings.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1957_1):
BAT prices for S50 E30s range from $10k-30k since 2018. Anything way outside of that range is an outlier (like the two cars that went for $50k-60k). Of course, your car will only fetch these prices on BAT where people will fight each other over the car. On FB marketplace and on R3v Classifieds, people will try to haggle you down hard if you try to ask those kinds of prices for it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1957_2):
I am following BAT now. I don't know about auctioning the car but will consider it. My car was a daily driver in the summer so I doubt I would get 30k. What about the wheels and the MTech 2 valance? I can't sell them on BAT and Ebay does not show new unpainted old stock. My car has a purple tag rack and the sport seats are heated. Factory head unit, HIK oil pan protector, 13 button, momo steering wheel, style 5 wheels, Borla muffler, ellipsoids, german check panel and that is all I can think of for now to add to the list.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1957_3):
Sounds like you have a super nice car dude. The E30 prices have been all over the place lately - If the car is a nice as I'm imagining it to be based on your description, id try to get it on BAT or Cars and Bids. As ZeKahr Mentioned, when you put the higher-ticket ($18-30k) listings on FB and the forums, a lot of people laugh you off or try to shame you for the price. With both the auction sites, you can agree on a comfortable reserve prior to listing with them, so its a very low risk situation to attempt listing with them. Keep in mind, if you go the auction route, people will beat you up there too - Just not on the price. But on paint chips, rips in the interior, any indiscrepancy in maintenance documents, and will definitely question all of the work that has been performed on the car. As long as you are ready to answer and defend all statements brought up against/about the car, id list on the auction sites. I would agree that $15-30k (Huge range I know) is a reasonable number to expect. Though to get the last $5-10k (Meaning for a sale above the low-mid $20k mark) will require something special or unique about the car. For example, its usually the cars with fresh paint, brand new Recaros, crack-free dash, euro-BBS wheels, rebuilt motor, etc So, if you have a clean, nice driver-quality S50 E30 that is very presentable and drives well, but at the same time is not 10000% Mint, $15-21k. If its extraordinarily special with something or some work performed that makes it stand out from the rest, then you could probably swing above that $20k+++ Mark. Good luck on your journey! Also, not sure what health issues you are facing - But wishing you a speedy recovery my friend. Rest up

ANSWER 5 (id: 1957_4):
I sold a pretty nice s50 car for 13.5 recently but it was an early model sedan, no AC. Overall a nice car, though. A buddy sold an insanely nice 24v swapped, repainted, AC, etc late coupe for around 20. Rust free S52 car in Nashville sold recently on here for 12 but it needed a clutch and general TLC. From what it sounds like without seeing pictures, I would list your car for 23 and take 17-20 depending on the timeframe in which you need the car gone. If you want more, list on BAT.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1957_6):
For the Mtech 2 valance, if you compare it to classiceuroparts.com (although not the best place) 2k isn't out of the picture maybe even more. With the way inflation has been though, it's going to be harder to find buyers at the moment and you may just need to be patient. That's my 2 cents and I might be way off

ANSWER 7 (id: 1957_7):
Thanks for all the advice. I will post pics hopefully by the end of the month so I can get some more feedback. I don't plan to leave the E30 scene, I still have my 325ix. This car just doesn't get driven, it has been sitting since 2018 and it deserves to be driven.