QUESTION ID: 2931

QUESTION:
Hi all, Long time BMW fan who is looking to connect with over BMW folks and learn more about this platform. I have always loved E30's and have had the pleasure of driving one back in the day. I never owned one of my own and am looking to get into one now. Am I crazy for considering a well maintained, 2 owner, 325e that has 350k on the clock with a WORKING odometer? Obviously, there may be some work ahead of me but if its truly maintained, what do I really need to keep up with? It would be my daily to get me to and from work roughly 5 miles a day, 4 days a week. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2931_0):
Welcome to r3v! https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=314400&highlight=Prepurchase+inspection This thread may help, if the car seems maintained well I'd go for it. Bare minimum you should take the oil cap off and look in the valve cover to see how the engine has been treated over the years. Look for burnt oil, carbon buildup, and excess wear with a flashlight while looking in there. Compression test wouldn't be a bad idea. Make sure you get paperwork on the timing belt, otherwise your gonna have to do it asap once purchased.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2931_1):
Thanks! That link was super useful. I talked to the owner again and he doesn't know the timing belt history. Not sure if I will proceed with it at this point. I'm kind of curious about doing a compression test just to see how it does! The search continues...

ANSWER 3 (id: 2931_10):
I bought two E30 so far both 88 325e 200k-300k miles on them and all I did check was rust and smoke at startup no issues drove each 112 miles each day for my commute of course timing belt done, no matter what history, along with updated head bolts and regular maintenance/tuneup, I forgot to say to check the clutch, high rpm from 1st to 5th.. if there is any slippage clutch may be due.. good luck

ANSWER 4 (id: 2931_12):
Originally posted by 2mAn guys, we went too hard too fast... we probably lost him. We need to easssseee into it. first pics, then GF pics... "Went hard too fast" is my middle name

ANSWER 5 (id: 2931_7):
Originally posted by pkstrategy Thanks! That link was super useful. I talked to the owner again and he doesn't know the timing belt history. Not sure if I will proceed with it at this point. I'm kind of curious about doing a compression test just to see how it does! The search continues... You can get the timing belt done over a weekend if you work very slow and clean other things at the same time, or you can just pay a shop or bribe one of the guys here to do it for you with $$$ over course. Post pics of the car you're interested in pics of GF (even ex's) are optional but will elevate your status here. We're a bunch of children here