QUESTION ID: 2231

QUESTION:
Need to repaint my front bumper and my valance soon. One of the POs of my car rearended it a few years ago and subsequently replaced the bumper + valance but never bothered painting it. Car looks weird with the front end blacked out. I've heard of brands like paint scratch and the like which say they are a "factory match" but I've heard that even these can be a little off.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2231_0):
Originally posted by ube91 Need to repaint my front bumper and my valance soon. One of the POs of my car rearended it a few years ago and subsequently replaced the bumper + valance but never bothered painting it. Car looks weird with the front end blacked out. I've heard of brands like paint scratch and the like which say they are a "factory match" but I've heard that even these can be a little off. locally i can get rattle cans with paint mixed to match. they'll do it off code or match to the car if you bring it in. that would be the closest. it's never going to match exact, as the old paint will have faded from new. if you're not picky i'd even try a tremclad or rustoleum in the US. about a decade ago there was a lot of back yard roller jobs using tremclad watered down with mineral spirits, then wet sanded flat between coats. if the prep work was proper it could result in professional looking finishes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2231_1):
Exact Match Car Paint Made Easy | AutomotiveTouchup https://www.automotivetouchup.com/ Restore your car's original paint with automotive paint that's an exact match for your car's color. Our touch-up paint is high quality to deliver professional results to every paint job. at AutomotiveTouchup May have to shuffle though some years if it doesn't initially popup. Lays down well, matches well for spray paint, seems durable for spray paint.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2231_2):
Originally posted by moatilliatta https://www.automotivetouchup.com/ May have to shuffle though some years if it doesn't initially popup. Lays down well, matches well for spray paint, seems durable for spray paint. they're doing it off code like the local supplier here. i have a question ... how are they shipping ? we're not allowed to ship aerosols or any pressurized canisters. not a knock on the biz. i think it's brilliant. edit : for trivia, the tremclad red is a supposed paint match for a ferrari red. it's not an intentional match. i find that hilarious.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2231_3):
Originally posted by 82eye they're doing it off code like the local supplier here. i have a question ... how are they shipping ? we're not allowed to ship aerosols or any pressurized canisters. not a knock on the biz. i think it's brilliant. They can ship aerosols and batteries using Ground.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2231_4):
Originally posted by 82eye They're doing it off code like the local supplier here. If you can get it mixed locally, I’d just do that. I have an auto parts shop around the corner from my house and have bought cirrusblau for the e30 and space grey for the e92 touch up paint from them - both small pots and aerosol cans. The colour match has been good just mixing it from the paint code.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2231_5):
Another option to check out is Dupli Color Cardinal Red. I used it for some touch up spots on my Brilliantrot car before, and was able to get it off the shelf at the auto parts store.