QUESTION ID: 2017

QUESTION:
Just kinda curious to see if there are any extremly rare e30's out there that anybody know of. and I mean real rare cars.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2017_3):
There is an urban legend about an e30 back in the day. It was an 88 325is, it would periodically show up in the classifieds section of the news paper. The car was said to have very rare factory parts such as the coveted bronzit paint scheme. It was also said to even possible have the famed BMW bottlecap rims? No one knows about that though. Anyway the car would be selling for very cheap. Each time it showed up it was listed cheaper than before. A friend of mine told me about it and he went to go check it out. I told him that it was to good to be true as back in the 80's these cars were selling for over 20 thousand dollars. My buddy came back the next day showing me he had bought it for 1,300. I was amazed he had got it so cheap and it was practically brand new. However the next day when I talked to him he seemed depressed. It was odd because he seemed like such a happy guy all the time. Days went on and he become more anti social and wouldn't talk to any of us. He just drove that car. Then one day I found out the terrible news. He had died. The police found him dead in that car and no cause of death was found. I decided to talk to previous owners the cars but to my shock, the past 5 owners had died. All in that very car. I knew that car had been cursed. A week later I moved and the years passed and I never heard anything else about that car. The only word of advise I can give you is if you ever see a cheap e30 with that champagne colored paint, !

ANSWER 2 (id: 2017_4):
Originally posted by zig553 On my local classifieds apparently this one is http://alberta.kijiji.ca/c-cars-vehi...AdIdZ352743878 Must be REALLY rare HAHA!!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2017_6):
The rarest factory cars in the US market would have to be the full M Technic convertibles but if you include tuner cars, then special models like the E30 M3 Dinan turbo (I believe there's only 3 produced). Genuine Alpina, Hartge, TC Baurs, AC Schnitzer, Racing Dynamics K27 cars are going to be rare these days. There are market specific models like South African 333i and S14 powered Italian 320iS that never made it over to the US as well.