QUESTION ID: 2857

QUESTION:
Vanity license plates on E30's: Yay? Nay? Thx in advance for participating! Sent from my iPad using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 2857_10):
Originally posted by Mwishlist Nope. But ask this guy: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/sho...hlight=cokgblr Wow! A 6 year old thread. Looks like I dug up an old subject. Unfortunately, the majority of it was tuned to someone getting COKGBLR for their vanity plate! Here's the one I have on my E46 (the Uber business card was from a driver that stopped in his tracks when he saw my car):

ANSWER 2 (id: 2857_11):
Originally posted by ButtJuice I’m not a fan, vanity plates kinda shout out “Oh, look at me. I think I’m cool”. That’s just my judgmental ass speaking though. Agree 100%. There are so many here in Charlotte: -One kid has an RX-8 with a tag that says, "CHAS3 ME", meanwhile the car is slow as shit -Saw a tag that said "GODOVER$" and he was driving a new Land Rover, the irony in that one was ridiculous -"AKEEPER" is another one, don't know what's up with that one -"FLT6TRBO" on a 911, which is somewhat justified -"GOW1NGS"; huge Red Wings/Detroit fan, which gets a pass Never saw this many when I lived in Florida.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2857_13):
A friend of mine's husband had a Mazda Speed with the plate Mov Ova on it. The Mazda died and now the plate is on her old Corolla, which he drives now. It's hilarious to see that on a Corolla. A kid in my neighborhood has OHSHIFT on his honda, which does crack me up. E46 M3, that was my holy grail for a while!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2857_2):
SNWMBLE here....usually not a fan of vanity plates but I think it suited the car. My E46 M3 I didn't want vanity plates, but did want the New York State issued "BMW Car Club of America" plates. So I initially ordered it non-vanity, and they gave me "BMW317".....I guess I was the 317th person to get a BMW vanity plate in NYS, and immediately requested a change for vanity. Couldn't run that. Now I have "1NLNE6" which I don't love.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2857_4):
I always wanted to get '2MAN' ... but its not available. tried to get 'SRL 311' for the Datsun also, but since its too similar to the actual plates, they wouldnt allow it... umm that was my POINT!... I also wanted one from the Aluminum Monster, but since it never got CA plates, I never got them. I doubt I will get one for the current daily

ANSWER 6 (id: 2857_6):
I always appreciate when the car has its original plates. In CA, an e30 with its original plates will typically begin with a "2" and have the Sunset style, or the later stamped block letters. I've seen some extra early cars with the blue plate as well.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2857_7):
Originally posted by mtech325 I always appreciate when the car has its original plates. In CA, an e30 with its original plates will typically begin with a "2" and have the Sunset style, or the later stamped block letters. I've seen some extra early cars with the blue plate as well. They usually look like crap tho, but I love sunset design too.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2857_9):
Originally posted by 2mAn I always wanted to get '2MAN' ... but its not available. tried to get 'SRL 311' for the Datsun also, but since its too similar to the actual plates, they wouldnt allow it... umm that was my POINT!... I also wanted one from the Aluminum Monster, but since it never got CA plates, I never got them. I doubt I will get one for the current daily ...but is ASSMAN available?