QUESTION ID: 3122

QUESTION:
So, basically I screwed up bad. I am 16 and have had my license for 2 months. I have a 91 318i that HAD a completely mint body along with a mint interior. I am only the 3rd owner and it is a euro car. It was bought and driven in Germany for the first 15 years or its life. I slid through a mailbox and a fence on Saturday night and screwed up the front end. I also backed in to my friends dads car later on in that same night. (Worst night of my life. I guess when it rains it pours.) Now the front is all twisted and mangled, I am missing a passenger mirror (if anyone knows of a brilliantrot passenger mirror for sale I'm interested) So as much as i don't want to the only way I can really afford to go is replica bumpers. I have to sort out the front of my friends dad's 09' Traverse which apparently the bumper was pushed back into the fender and the fender was pushed back into the door and he told me he thinks there is about 4k worth of damage.(edit- shop quoted at $1300) I am going to have to file an insurance claim which is going to make my insurance shoot through the roof. I also have to fix these peoples fence and mailbox. All I have to my name is my e30, a set of Kopi's and 1k in the bank. I am trying to apply for jobs to pay off all this debt (I'm guessing about 5k all said and done including my e30 repairs) To top all this off I cant drive my car because it is missing a mirror, the front bumper is missing indicators, and the windshield is completely shattered. So, my question is does anyone have any recommendations for aftermarket bumpers(I like MTech II)? And also how will they mount on to my current setup? I will have them installed by a body shop so they can be mounted correctly, but what do i need to do before i bring it there? Im not sure how the valance and front bumper plays into the mounting of these aftermarket parts. Thank you guys for your help. Edit---- The electrical system is also very messed up. Dash lights no longer work, one of the indicators stopped working and power mirrors (or the one that is left) stopped working. edit-- I think we have established that replica bumpers are not the way to go and also not the cheap way either. Images-- imgur.com http://imgur.com/dAYTZQx Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users. http://imgur.com/s8Gry54\http://imgur.com/n9Ef0ye\ imgur.com http://imgur.com/3hNlg2e Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users. imgur.com http://imgur.com/D4lXR6I Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users. imgur.com http://imgur.com/UwNzr1F Discover the magic of the internet at Imgur, a community powered entertainment destination. Lift your spirits with funny jokes, trending memes, entertaining gifs, inspiring stories, viral videos, and so much more from users.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3122_0):
And that's why you don't try and drive drunk folks... Damage doesn't look too bad. You'd be perfectly fine driving that around here, I've never heard of someone getting pulled over for a missing mirror. Just use the biker hand signals if a cop is in front of you lol. I'll let others chime in on the mtech bumper, I need a new bumper for my car too

ANSWER 2 (id: 3122_1):
Get your replacement parts from a junkyard. Getting an M Tech 2 bumper, and dealing with a body shop isn't going to be cheaper, at all. Get a replacement plastic bumper, bolt it on in a few minutes and be done with it. Same for the mirror.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3122_11):
the biggest question is why the hell are you running those ugly ass wheels on a mint brilliantrot euro car... break it down with me 1 - Sell the wheels that are on the car and throw the kopis on. You'll need the money you get from the wheels to buy lunch. 2 - learn how to use a hammer and fix your neighbors fence yourself. 3 - file an insurance claim so your friend's dad's car gets fixed or whatever. Much cheaper than paying for it yourself and having the shop find more stuff broken along the way. 4 - most states have a law where you only need 2 usable mirrors so you're good. Find someone parting a car and get a new turn signal from them. Look at your ugly ass car for a while and learn to appreciate it. Suck it up and deal. We've all done it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3122_12):
Originally posted by Das Delfin the biggest question is why the hell are you running those ugly ass wheels on a mint brilliantrot euro car... break it down with me 1 - Sell the wheels that are on the car and throw the kopis on. You'll need the money you get from the wheels to buy lunch. 2 - learn how to use a hammer and fix your neighbors fence yourself. 3 - file an insurance claim so your friend's dad's car gets fixed or whatever. Much cheaper than paying for it yourself and having the shop find more stuff broken along the way. 4 - most states have a law where you only need 2 usable mirrors so you're good. Find someone parting a car and get a new turn signal from them. Look at your ugly ass car for a while and learn to appreciate it. Suck it up and deal. We've all done it. They are winter rims and came on the car. I hate them too. (it snows alot here and the shit they put on the roads will EAT the kopis alive.) I am already fixing the guys fence myself. Shop just quoted for the Traverse at $1300 not filing a claim.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3122_2):
Originally posted by thefrog1394 And that's why you don't try and drive drunk folks... Damage doesn't look too bad. You'd be perfectly fine driving that around here, I've never heard of someone getting pulled over for a missing mirror. Just use the biker hand signals if a cop is in front of you lol. I'll let others chime in on the mtech bumper, I need a new bumper for my car too I was most certainly sober. Just being an idiot 16 year old.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3122_3):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 Get your replacement parts from a junkyard. I live in a fairly small city. I had to drive 6 hours to even get an e30. None in the junkyards around here.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3122_4):
That doesn't look that bad at all. Don't go aftermarket bumpers. You will spend more trying to get them to fit than just buying a used stock bumper and having it painted (you only need the skin, not the white-ish re-bar under). Look at local junkyards and online. They are easy to come by for cheap. It looks like the fender is just misaligned (don't see any damage to it) and probably doesn't need replacing. You will need a front valence though, once again, buy used. A few hundred in used parts and a few hundred in paint/bodywork and it will be back on the road. P.S. - Just noticed you are in Bend. That's where I'm from.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3122_5):
Originally posted by J Mid I live in a fairly small city. I had to drive 6 hours to even get an e30. None in the junkyards around here. Try car-part.com. Also, I edited my post, so go read that. With the damage done to other people's property, you should be focusing on that, and spending as little as possible on your own car, since it seems you have little money. If your car looks bad for a while, too bad.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3122_6):
Yeah dude, how wasted were you? Lol. To be honest those repairs are pretty easy, you don't need a body shop. Try to find a used bumper for sale & valance with the same original paint, that's going to be the hardest part. Maybe check out some local junkyards.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3122_7):
Originally posted by AndrewBird That doesn't look that bad at all. Don't go aftermarket bumpers. You will spend more trying to get them to fit than just buying a used stock bumper and having it painted (you only need the skin, not the white-ish re-bar under). Look at local junkyards and online. They are easy to come by for cheap. It looks like the fender is just misaligned (don't see any damage to it) and probably doesn't need replacing. You will need a front valence though, once again, buy used. A few hundred in used parts and a few hundred in paint/bodywork and it will be back on the road. P.S. - Just noticed you are in Bend. That's where I'm from. Yes, I am in Bend. Alright I will look around I have been looking like crazy. Shipping is what really kills on the price of buying used parts.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3122_9):
That damage is easily repairable. Just a new bumper and valence. If I were closer I'd help you out since I have a spare red valence :( You could have all that fixed in just a few hours. Only takes a matter of minutes to pull the bumper and then the valence isn't hard at all.