QUESTION ID: 1851

QUESTION:
I completely lost shifting today. Thankfully I was in my driveway! Somehow the circlip came off the end of the shifter rod. I pulled the shifter boot to take a look down there. I’m able to use a screwdriver to pry the rod back into place, but I don’t see a way to get a new circlip on there. Any suggestions? I’m hoping I don’t have to remove a bunch of stuff and lower the transmission to get at it from underneath.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1851_0):
it's best accessed from under the car. i'd get a good look at things first. it looks like there may be more going on. there are bushings that go on either side of the shift rod, not just the circlip. the shift rod has a non replaceable sleeve bushing that may be worn out as well.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1851_2):
rebuilt my entire stock shifter with all new bushings clips etc. trans was in place. driveshaft was out. could probably done with the ds in place but harder. mine is not an ix though. pretty sure that adds a whole other level of pita.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1851_3):
You won't have to drop the trans. Exhaust and heat shields should be taken off. Could possibly leave the driveshaft in place if you have small enough hands.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1851_5):
Looks like I will need to drop the transmission. There is no way to access that space without doing so. What a PITA for such a tiny little clip. Poor design if you ask me. I should mention that this is an iX.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1851_6):
You don't have to remove the transmission to get to that clip. The most you should have to do is put a jack (with 2 x4 protecting the oil pan) under the oil pan and remove the bolts for the crossmember. Slowly lower the oil pump jack and this should give you enough clearance to get to that clip.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1851_7):
Originally posted by EyExR Looks like I will need to drop the transmission. There is now way to access that space without doing so. What a PITA for such a tiny little clip. Poor design if you as me. I should mention that this is an iX. Ah it's an iX. I've never seen one, but there is a transfer case attached to the back of the transmission I'm assuming?