QUESTION ID: 2405

QUESTION:
Hi, I purchased an e30 louver and other 2 products on January 2020 and decided to ship it to my brothers place. But, since the pandemic began, my brother has not been able to return to his place since there is a travel restriction. I decide to have a friend to help me pick up the package but i did not ask for the package to be open for security purposes. the package arrive around february 2020. I waited for almost 8 months to be able to ship the package to my place. Before I ask my friend to ship my package to me, i become curious and ask to open the package. inside the louver was missing. I check the shipping confirmation, there was no louver but on the charged bill the louver was included. I try emailing them on october. the respond was ok for the first few months but its getting harder to reach them now. I am not a resident of US and only can contact through email and DM on instagram. i always email once a month just to check and never ask too many question. they said on december 2020 that the louver is already released by the US custom and is shipped to them shortly. I dont know much about the regulation of US custom or how long it will take for them to receive the item but at least they can reply my email. its been couple weeks since i email again just to check. Does anyone have this problem with CAtuned like me? any advice for me? Im getting frustrated now. Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 2405_0):
So, Catuned is a US distributor of this part made in Europe https://www.classiceuroparts.com/pro...-real-plastic/ If I understand correctly it's being shipped and customs cleared. The part is pretty big for regular shipping.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2405_1):
First piece of advice, don't wait 8 months to check the contents of your package. Sounds like they are working with you. Shipping large items from different countries can take time and the US shipping has been a bit slow with the holidays and Covid. No idea where you are for a final package destination, but seems CAtuned is doing their job, albeit maybe a little slow.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2405_2):
Originally posted by Reichart12 First piece of advice, don't wait 8 months to check the contents of your package. Sounds like they are working with you. Shipping large items from different countries can take time and the US shipping has been a bit slow with the holidays and Covid. No idea where you are for a final package destination, but seems CAtuned is doing their job, albeit maybe a little slow. Hi, They still haven't ship the package from US and they said the package still in US customs from Europe waiting to be delivered from to them. I hope what you said is true because this is my first time shopping with them and they did forget to send it initially so im afraid they might be "sloppy" a bit. But i do understand vendor do mistake from time to time and its normal. Hopefully they can ship it soon. I have purchased headlights and other part from US and it arrives on time. Hopefully it can be resolved soon.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2405_3):
Catuned might used Fedex for shipping. The main Fedex hub is in Memphis. According to the latest news, millions and millions packages are stuck there. And the customs employees don't want to go to work there "due to cold weather".

ANSWER 5 (id: 2405_4):
I know CATuned is a fairly respected outfit. They do a lot of work with E30s and have sold a lot to this board as well as other vendors. Good luck but I think it will all work out in the end.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2405_5):
I moved from Germany to the US back in early November 2020 and we were sending some packages of stuff. The first 3-4 packages took about 2 weeks. We sent the last two and a couple Christmas packages mid November and they took like 2.5 months.... Needless to say, international shipping and customs is pretty messed up at the moment.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2405_6):
I work in the shipping industry. COVID has impacted us as well so the labor force is shorthanded and the ships have been piling up on the West Coast waiting to come in. This delay just adds to the usual time it takes to ship things.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2405_7):
As a vendor for "boutique" parts, I will say it has been unusual with supply chains, back-orders and the like. Even small outfits like mine have been overwhelmed in 2020 - everyone is idle and wants to get their projects done. :/