QUESTION ID: 3057

QUESTION:
The 540i was in to get the bumper resprayed. Was given a rental 450xixis-something-convertible for the period(i've driven other models too). I felt like I was in a...a Ford Fusion. I do not like..Ford Fusion's. What I don't like of 'new' BMWs - Styling - 13-gear automatic (I'm exaggerating, but really..) - plastic.....everywhere - cabin noise - turbo lag - steering feedback nonexistent etc. What I do like of 'new' BMWs - ... I get my car back, get in and and it feels like I put my favorite tailored suit back on. I will not buy a BMW past 2003. Sorry, just ranting.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3057_0):
My buddy (a BMW mechanic) and I talk about it all the time. It's hard to have brand loyalty any more when the cars are all the same anymore. The driving experience is so disconnected anymore, and lets face it - drivers today are lazy as f*ck. Hell, most people wouldn't know how (or remember) to turn on the headlights if they got in a car that didn't have automatic lights. There's just nothing about the new cars in general that says "hey, you need one of these." And it's not just because I like rowing my own gears - my wife, who doesn't know how to drive a manual (blame her parents) can't stand most new cars. It's almost like everything has become so similar due to windtunnel testing, pedestrian safety regulations, passenger safety..etc. The only difference in the badge and maybe the color. Unless you get in to the low production or super car range - it's just a very bleak landscape.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3057_1):
Originally posted by djjerme My buddy (a BMW mechanic) and I talk about it all the time. It's hard to have brand loyalty any more when the cars are all the same anymore. The driving experience is so disconnected anymore, and lets face it - drivers today are lazy as f*ck. Hell, most people wouldn't know how (or remember) to turn on the headlights if they got in a car that didn't have automatic lights. There's just nothing about the new cars in general that says "hey, you need one of these." And it's not just because I like rowing my own gears - my wife, who doesn't know how to drive a manual (blame her parents) can't stand most new cars. It's almost like everything has become so similar due to windtunnel testing, pedestrian safety regulations, passenger safety..etc. The only difference in the badge and maybe the color. Unless you get in to the low production or super car range - it's just a very bleak landscape. Its the same with the colour options. You'd think everyone was colour blind with what they get to choose from on modern cars. Black, white, silver, dark silver and MAYBE a red or blue and thats it. In general, they are only catering to the mass consumer and that consumer is a lot let willing to take risks on a big purchase like a new car.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3057_10):
Originally posted by Northern On the other hand, Newer MB stuff has been catching my eye (at least in the looks department). Agreed Last winter we rented a little CLA250 4matic. Compared to the BMW 2/3/4 lineup, the curb appeal of the MB was a much nicer experience. Despite the NVH on highway speeds, my GF and I would have made an exception for that car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3057_11):
The e46M is far and away my favorite BMW of all time (that's all I have been driving for the past 12 years). The e30 is my 2nd favorite and I agree with most of what is being said. I have no interest in post 2006 BMW's and think they are now producing the ugliest cars out of Germany as well. Fortunately for me, I am not a brand-loyalist though I have owned all BMW's for quite some time. Mr. Wolfe

ANSWER 5 (id: 3057_12):
Funny- I'm still getting used to how little feedback I get from the E46. Then I get back in the ti and life's better... Things change. All I seem to do is get older and grouchier. t

ANSWER 6 (id: 3057_2):
I haven't driven any of them, but I hear you. Post-E46 BMWs do nothing for me, and honestly, I think they're the ugliest cars coming out of Germany. I think they jumped the shark when they started playing engine sounds through the stereo, combined with their new model naming scheme, which makes no sense whatsoever. I recently learned that the new 328i has a 2L 4cyl, not a 2.8 I6. And how many fucking gears do they have? I think the new Fords have a 9 gear transmission. They added 3 gears in like ten years. And who needs that many gears anyway? Five or six is all you need. There's a handful of newer cars I like - the new Miata, the Cayman (6cyl), S2000, and maybe one or two others. Otherwise they leave me pretty cold. Super cars do nothing for me. They're too refined (new cars in general), and mostly just a fashion/status statement IMO. Not going to get into how complicated they are. You all know that already. I think American ruined cars. All their ever increasing safety standards starting in the 70s have only made cars worse. Heavier, more complicated, uglier. Not that safer cars are a bad thing, but it's certainly been a trade off. The pedestrian safety stuff is stupid though. If you're dumb enough to walk in front of a car because you weren't looking where you're going, you deserve whatever you get.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3057_3):
E36 and older for me, personally. I drove an E46 M3 a while back, and even that was too disconnected for my tastes. IMO, the E36 M3 is the last of teh drivers cars from BMW. Just my opinion, of course. This isn't just BMW's either. I drove a buddies 05 STI for a while, wayyy back in the day, while I was wrapping up my S52 swap. Car was an absolute joy to drive. tons of feedback, lots of feel. I fell in love immediately. Went and test drove a 2017 STI last summer. Same old boring shit that you all are describing. Super disconnected. Too insulated as well. Did not feel fast, regardless of how quick the speedo moved. Did not fall in love.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3057_4):
I do not like 'new' BMWs In general I agree, but there are a few bright spots in the current line-up. I would like to thrash a new 2 series around a track sometime. It is about the same size as an E30, and I understand BMW put a conscious effort into keeping it simple (by today's standards anyway). I'll take an M2 manual please.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3057_5):
Originally posted by Aleman In general I agree, but there a few bright spots in the current line-up. I would like to thrash a new 2 series around a track sometime. It is about the same size as an E30, and I understand BMW put a conscious effort into keeping it simple (by today's standards anyway). I'll take an M2 manual please. I was just going to say I'd love to take an M2 for the drive... Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 10 (id: 3057_6):
I had a new x3 as a loaner a couple months back. I felt it was shittier quality wise than my e53 but the new tech was nice. I'd like to try out the newer 2 and 4 series. I was contemplating replacing my s5 with a 435ix

ANSWER 11 (id: 3057_8):
I'd like an E82 135i, or an e90/e91 as a daily. Beyond that, maybe if I had a job and could write off a lease, then do a 5er to daily into the ground/let the wife drive/not look after at all. I thought about the M235i/M2, but honestly I'd rather have an N54/6 135i... at least you know what problems you'll have when you pull the trigger. On the other hand, Newer MB stuff has been catching my eye (at least in the looks department).

ANSWER 12 (id: 3057_9):
I think the e82 128i was the last of the pure, fun to drive BMWs and I'm kicking myself for not buying one back in 2013. It was compact, had nimble handling, and had the last of the naturally-aspirated in-line 6s. No turbos or direct injection crap to deal with. They have future cult car written all over them.