QUESTION ID: 3222

QUESTION:
So I was rear ended (hit and run) by a pick up truck damaging the rear panel corner Above the tail (also broke my MHW tail). Got an estimate done with insurance adjuster at the best shop in Los Angeles, BMW factory authorized, etc. etc. For them to guarantee paint work it could be a job up to $7,000 because there is no good place to cut the paint. So the adjuster will now figure out value to see how much they will pay vs. totaling the car. I will find out the answer sooner than later, but right now I'm stressing on what ridiculously low number they will come up with for value. Anyone care to guess what it will be?? Vehicle is a 5 speed 1989 325is with under 140k mi. in good original condition.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3222_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro In that case..buy some new old stock ones! My accident happened in 97 so maybe they're hip to old euro parts now. Ironically there are ZERO available on ebay right now. there was a mint set for 1k last month but gone now.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3222_11):
Ok wow... I get your shop wants to make some money.... but at the expense of potentially taking away your car from you over paint costs is just silly. From that one pic - I don't see any obvious buckles in the quarter panel. If the damage to the quarter is confined to just the area around the lamp, they should be able to 'lose' the color coat in the quarter panel itself further out, without needing to go into the door. There's a seam where to rocker meets below the door that is a break point, and they would be able to bring the clear coat up and over the roof rail as well, out to the windshield area by the fender. There is an operation called 'tinting' as well that would allow for an easier color match, if it is needed. Depending on how far they have to go vertically for the repair on the corner area, they may have to paint into the trunk lid for an even match, but that's not a big deal.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3222_2):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is I'm going to guess lower. Closer to 2k That's pure evil. I'm hoping for $6,500 with payout of 70% of that and keeping a clean title.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3222_4):
When I got rear ended I had to provide receipts and proof the startecs I had were $500 lights. The adjuster didn't believe it and asked the same e30 forum I was on at the time if I was serious or just BS'ing..lol. They won't believe your MHW's are worth anything unless you prove it. For all they know they are stock lights you smoked yourself. They offer me like 2k at first but after all the receipts 2.7i engine,m tech spoiler,startecs...etc....I got almost $7k

ANSWER 5 (id: 3222_6):
Originally posted by reelizmpro When I got rear ended I had to provide receipts and proof the startecs I had were $500 lights. The adjuster didn't believe it and asked the same e30 forum I was on at the time if I was serious or just BS'ing..lol. They won't believe your MHW's are worth anything unless you prove it. For all they know they are stock lights you smoked yourself. They offer me like 2k at first but after all the receipts 2.7i engine,m tech spoiler,startecs...etc....I got almost $7k They are being awesome about the MHW so far. He said whenever I find a set buy them show them the receipt and they will send me a check.... I'm just hoping this is how they treat the whole situation.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3222_7):
Originally posted by ak- My guess is they will offer you 2,100 and you're going to end up fighting towards a 5k payout. Wish you luck though - this situation always sucks. It's going to be a learning experience and a journey.... I'm trying to look at it that way lol.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3222_8):
Originally posted by DELPHINtimecapsule They are being awesome about the MHW so far. He said whenever I find a set buy them show them the receipt and they will send me a check.... I'm just hoping this is how they treat the whole situation. In that case..buy some new old stock ones! My accident happened in 97 so maybe they're hip to old euro parts now.