QUESTION ID: 1378

QUESTION:
Posted in classifieds as well. But hoping I have luck with my fellow verters. I'm looking to buy a Raceland Windscreen. I mean, if you have an OEM or BavAuto that you wanna sell for cheaper, by all means! I'm just on a tight budget. (Freaking college). lol Thanks! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1378_1):
Yea OE ones are crossing 400 mark easy now. If I fell into one I'd prob resell just due to what they bring. I have a raceland and it works well for me.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1378_2):
Anyone have a Raceland they want to sell? I'll probably buy one new, I just wanted to see if anyone had one used they'd sell for cheaper. Lol Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1378_4):
Originally posted by mr2peak I have a raceland. It's worth the $99 How much gap is between the flat part and the back seat? I was wondering if I could run this with a child seat in the back without having to remove it (sans child obviously)? Seems like the OEM goes all the way back to the seat but I'm seeing a few pics of what I think are Racelands that have a big gap between where it ends and where the back seats are.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1378_5):
Originally posted by Mwishlist How much gap is between the flat part and the back seat? I was wondering if I could run this with a child seat in the back without having to remove it (sans child obviously)? Seems like the OEM goes all the way back to the seat but I'm seeing a few pics of what I think are Racelands that have a big gap between where it ends and where the back seats are. The gap on the Raceland, no child will fit back there. Attached Files

ANSWER 5 (id: 1378_7):
Originally posted by rcsoundn1 Yea OE ones are crossing 400 mark easy now. If I fell into one I'd prob resell just due to what they bring. I have a raceland and it works well for me. I have 3 OEM ones $450 shipped . I live in 60108

ANSWER 6 (id: 1378_8):
I bought an oem one with the travel cover and it surprises everyone when I use it. Def worth the extra bills compared to race lands and is nla from dealer Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 1378_9):
Originally posted by E30335i I bought an oem one with the travel cover and it surprises everyone when I use it. Def worth the extra bills compared to race lands and is nla from dealer Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk I have 3 OEM wind screens . Two with the OEM bag