QUESTION ID: 3172

QUESTION:
I bought my 91 318is about a year ago and it has been my daily driver ever since. I have been slowly working on restoring it. I have refreshed the rear-end with new bushings, mounts and axles. The car is mostly rust free except for 2 quarter sized spots. I also flushed all fluids, and replaced all of the vacuum hoses with silicone. The car is mechanically sound and hasn't given me a single issue, but needs some cosmetic work. The upholstery is torn on the seats and the paint is faded, but not peeling. Last week while driving home from work, I was rear-ended. The damage to my car does not appear to be too bad. Most of the damage is on the rear bumper, trim, and bumper shocks. There are also a couple of dents, one just below the taillight and another on the rear valence by the exhaust. The adjuster came out, inspected the damage, and said the car was a total loss even though the damage is not too bad. My car is being valued at $1700 due to the cosmetic issues, but I know its worth much more than that. Is there anything I can do to fight this valuation or prove to them that the car is being valued incorrectly? I was told that I could hire an independent appraiser (out of my own pocket) to appraise the car, but the insurance can still counter with their own independent appraiser. I plan on buying the car back from the insurance regardless of the valuation. Any help or advice would be greatly appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3172_2):
Sold my old 318is a few months ago for $8700 AUD. it was in fairly good condition besides the paint had a few peeling spots, bushings were junk, two small rust spots and cracks in rear bumper.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3172_3):
Try and buy one just like it. Send your adjuster the add for the replacement car. If they total it, you might want to try and find a clean title car, instead of putting money into a car with a salvage title. It might not matter to you now, but when it's time to sell it it will matter.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3172_4):
Our 91 325i convertible (likely lower value) was not totaled this past season when an 85 year old lady nailed the drivers door and quarter panel (so the worst area to repair), insurance came back with a $1750 quote to repair and keep the clean title. Not sure if that's helpful for you but it's a comparable car and just happened a couple months ago. They didn't ask for/care about any maintenance; I thought the quote was low for the damage so we're taking the cash and fixing it independently rather than trying to fight for a few hundred bucks and deal with them wanting to total the car if the quote is too high. I initially thought we'd have to fight insurance to get anything out of it without the car being totaled..