QUESTION ID: 3243

QUESTION:
Looking at two owner, BMW CCA owner, fully serviced write vert e30 with 27k miles in excellent condition. Includes windscreen, hardtop. Looks like new. Value???

ANSWER 1 (id: 3243_10):
Well we have little idea what he is asking, short of "value". It could sell for a huge amount for the right guy. With that, I resort then to the sanitized "what the market will bear". I would not consider this the answer he desires or something he was unaware of. Put it in the classifieds of an enthusiast's rag such as the Roundel. How much time/money you want to put into selling it? Or drop it at EAG's doorstep. They are in the business of these types. To maximize, it will take time. The glory of a low mileage car is reserved to a collector. To a driver, low mileage on this age car means not much. Rubber, hoses, items just go bad as a function of time. This car could still need the usual upkeep we see in our six figured mileage vehicles! 15k. Send an e-mail to "What's My Car Worth?". Let Keith tell you.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3243_11):
I remember verts when they were new. The seats were like butter. That was the quinesstential e30 before people thought they were race cars. Look at any movie or poster from the 80's early 90's. Many of the e30's were verts. I imagine this car is practically new being enthusiast owned and having only 28k miles. It's not a barn or swamp find that needs restoration like many old cars with this kind of mileage. They obviously only drove in perfect weather.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3243_12):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I remember verts when they were new. The seats were like butter. That was the quinesstential e30 before people thought they were race cars. Look at any movie or poster from the 80's early 90's. Many of the e30's were verts. I imagine this car is practically new being enthusiast owned and having only 28k miles. They obviously only drove in perfect weather. Verts rule!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3243_2):
More information Alpine white over black leather Original paint and top, described as excellent, garaged R134a conversion Heated seats Factory lsd 9/89 build date, early 1990 model Two owner, Carfax documented miles Odometer works Ad:. Asking Price $16,500 + shipping 1990 BMW 325ic 5 speed with removable hardtop. Two owner dealer serviced since new with all service records. Alpine White paint is original and in excellent condition with only minor chips as to be expected. The black leather interior is also original and in excellent condition with no tears and showing only minimum wear. The dashboard is crack free. The convertible top is original. The plastic rear window is clear and crack free. The A/C has been converted by BMW dealer to R134A refrigerant. The evaporator, expansion valve, o-rings and compressor where replaced for the conversion. Factory options include Cross Spoke Wheels, Rear Windscreen, Limited Slip Differential, Heated Front Seats, 6 CD Player-BMW and Carpeted Floor Mats. The car has always been covered and garaged since new.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3243_3):
Originally posted by reelizmpro $25k ish....more if facelifted 91-93 model. +2k for hardtop and windscreen. Verts are hit and miss with enthusiasts. Have to respectfully disagree. Without knowing the year or flaws, verts are the least desirable models IMHO, after sedans. If it was a flawless Mtech-2 maybe, but my guess would be more towards $15k, no more than $20k if it's perfect.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3243_4):
More info Seller posted ad: 1990 BMW 325ic 5 speed with removable hardtop. Two owner dealer serviced since new with all service records. Alpine White paint is original and in excellent condition with only minor chips as to be expected. The black leather interior is also original and in excellent condition with no tears and showing only minimum wear. The dashboard is crack free. The convertible top is original he black leather interior is also original and in excellent condition with no tears and showing only minimum wear. The dashboard is crack free. The convertible top is original. The plastic rear window is clear and crack free. The A/C has been converted by BMW dealer to R134A refrigerant. The evaporator, expansion valve, o-rings and compressor where replaced for the conversion. Factory options include Cross Spoke Wheels, Rear Windscreen, Limited Slip Differential, Heated Front Seats, 6 CD Player-BMW and Carpeted Floor Mats. The car has always been covered and garaged since new. Transmission: 5-speed Mileage: 28,884 Exterior Color: Alpine White Interior: Black

ANSWER 7 (id: 3243_5):
verts are the least desirable models IMHO Originally posted by rich4rdee Have to respectfully disagree. Without knowing the year or flaws, verts are the least desirable models IMHO, after sedans. If it was a flawless Mtech-2 maybe, but my guess would be more towards $15k, no more than $20k if it's perfect. I think that depends a lot in what region you are in. In sunny climes, verts are as popular, with sedans being last. I also see more well cared for verts than others. Of course, as I am in South Florida, it is to be expected.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3243_6):
I'd say somewhere around 10k. Looks like it's pretty well optioned and the new A/C is a plus. R3v isn't the best place to ask the value of a convertible because most of us here either track our cars or aren't in the demographic of someone looking for a sporty old vintage bmw convertible from their youth.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3243_7):
Sedans are bottom of the barrel and always have been. Those are the first produced base models. The e30 Verts on the other hand were iconic as well as fully loaded. M tech verts were the most expensive e30's you could buy. Eag sold a few 318iS and 325i coupes for low to mid twenties and they had more mileage. Too bad about the diving boards though.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3243_8):
I say no more than 15k. Of course, one could shop any car around enough and find that one buyer to go crazy. I like to price things to sell. I am not in the business; a car sale is only a function of clearing things I don't want or need. I like a lot of cars. I see what else could I get for this money. At 15k and more, wow. There are some super cars. It comes down to how bad seller wants it gone and willingness to sshop it around.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3243_9):
fuck! you guys crack me up. i'm pretty sure he isn't asking what you would pay. he wants to know what it could sell for. that car is worth in the mid 20's. its not for me personally and it probably won't sell easily but it is worth every penny. you show me a car like that for 10-15k, and i'll buy every one of them simply to flip. i would roll the dice on bring a trailer if i was selling it. i do agree that cabbies are less desirable than coupes but i agree with barry in that they are more sought after than sedans.