QUESTION ID: 2912

QUESTION:
Thinking if switching to a blindspot mirror would be a good option. Those of you out there running one, want to share your thoughts and experience? BMW part number 51161926845 Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2912_0):
Just adjust your mirrors correctly. Side mirrors aren't for looking behind you. Adjusted correctly, they are blind spot mirrors. Page not found – AAA Exchange https://seniordriving.aaa.com/improve-your-driving-skills/prepare-drive/how-use-adjust-your-mirrors/

ANSWER 2 (id: 2912_1):
Originally posted by MoreMayhem Just adjust your mirrors correctly. Side mirrors aren't for looking behind you. Adjusted correctly, they are blind spot mirrors. https://seniordriving.aaa.com/improv...-your-mirrors/ Agreed. I had a set of those stupid convex mirrors on the side mirrors of the Lexus when I bought it. I promptly got rid of them and adjusted the mirrors correctly. Now I can make lane changes safely :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 2912_11):
Originally posted by dnguyen1963 Whatever happens to turning your head? I think those that can't turn their heads are stuck looking at their cell phones... at least that seems to be the issue in CT.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2912_12):
I've wanted a set of these for my E34 for a while now. Haven't justified $75 for mirrors though. One thing to note, the part number you post is the non-heated version. If your car has heated mirrors, you probably want to get the heated version. This is the heated part number: 51161926853

ANSWER 5 (id: 2912_13):
I'm not understanding how the stock mirrors aren't working for people. I sit pretty far back in the car, which would make the situation worse, and they still work perfectly fine.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2912_2):
Originally posted by uturn Thinking if switching to a blindspot mirror would be a good option. Those of you out there running one, want to share your thoughts and experience? BMW part number 51161926845 Thanks! I thought the reflection caught too much of the mirror housing when adjusted to DMV specs. The mirror glass is inset on an e30 vs. most modern cars. Someone added largish rectangular convex mirrors to my e46 before I bought it. I've grown to like them. The little circular convex mirrors I don't find that useful on already small mirrors.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2912_3):
Originally posted by e30sh I thought the reflection caught too much of the mirror housing when adjusted to DMV specs. The mirror glass is inset on an e30 vs. most modern cars. Someone added largish rectangular convex mirrors to my e46 before I bought it. I've grown to like them. The little circular convex mirrors I don't find that useful on already small mirrors. I've had mine adjusted to completely remove blind spots on both sides for years. Half a car between the rear view and side view, half a car between the side view and my peripheral vision.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2912_4):
I bought one, and it works fine - takes a bit of adjusting but it's helpful. Kept my old mirror in case I want to switch back, but that's probably not happening unless the new one breaks

ANSWER 9 (id: 2912_5):
Thanks for all the input....seems it comes down to personal preference. Have always looked over my shoulder to check my blindspot. It's just lately that I had someone sneak up on me after I ruled out that my blind spot was clear. Might give it a whirl... Thanks again!

ANSWER 10 (id: 2912_6):
My mirrors were totally shot and hard to see out of (almost looked like failing clear coat). So when I bought new ones I saw the blind spot mirror and had never seen them before so I figured a cool different part. I like it, but I wouldn't recommend buying one just to buy one if your current mirror is in good shape.