QUESTION ID: 2554

QUESTION:
Is there any standard thickness of sheet steel that is appropriate for this? Car is 1990 BMW 318is to be used as historic rally car and will have a cage. I plan to remove the headlining and sunroof cassette, then plating over the sunroof aperture with a wide margin. Should I put additional plates at each of the corners on the inside in order to stiffen them up, and possibly bond some small angle to the underside of the main plate for stiffness? I’m going to plate in a single sheet of flat steel with the minimum of shaping required, and pop rivet around the perimeter at 50mm intervals. Usually people use silicon sealant to seal this up but I’m considering using Gripbond Pro adhesive on the overlap and some seam sealer on the inside. The exterior of the sunroof will be rattle canned and for the inside I was going to cover with a bit of foam camping mat and glue on a dark grey carpet tile where it is visible through the original headlining hole. Anybody done this before can give me any pointers? Cheers.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2554_0):
You need to look at the rules and regulations for your particular organization. Some require steel (or even OEM), others allow aluminum/lexan etc. As far as covering the hole, it's a pretty simple procedure. I have built many competition e30's and have done them in various ways to adhere to rule sets. Aluminum riveted on is simple, clean and seals easily. You can use silicone, or any type of paintable body seam sealer.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2554_1):
Depending on your sanctioning regulations and windows you may also want a vent in the roof, or an exhaust port further aft as dust can be a real issue.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2554_2):
Thanks. I don't think there are any regs that I need to comply with as it is UK road rallies which can be entered in standard production cars. I have regular glass and functioning windows so I will just plate with 1.5mm galvanised sheet steel riveted onto the existing roof skin with a sealant in between the overlap. In a two door car is there any way of getting the headlining out enough to remove the cassette without taking out all the glass?