QUESTION ID: 1558

QUESTION:
hey guys I'm looking for a set of factory wheels for my IX I'm willing to drive up to three hours from the Northeast Pennsylvania area if anybody has a decent set it's the only thing the car is missing to keep it 100 percent factory.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1558_0):
Contact this gentleman in Baltimore. He has a set of wheels that he is selling (IF they dont sell with the car) https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...t-in-baltimore

ANSWER 2 (id: 1558_1):
Are you really going to find ix-specific wheels on a website like that? LIke who would even know what they were? They don't have any markings that identify them as being for an ix - you just have to know what they look like or know the specific bolt pattern, hub bore and offset. Otherwise, they look like a generic 80's basketweave that came on tons of cars. And if they did know what they were, they are probably not going to be cheap.. I got *super* lucky and randomly found a full set with caps for $50 laying in the dirt at what is basically a wheel/tire junkyard out in the boonies. I was wandering around the blackberries and random piles of junk wheels, and could not believe what I was seeing.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1558_2):
Originally posted by nando Are you really going to find ix-specific wheels on a website like that? LIke who would even know what they were? They don't have any markings that identify them as being for an ix - you just have to know what they look like or know the specific bolt pattern, hub bore and offset. Otherwise, they look like a generic 80's basketweave that came on tons of cars. And if they did know what they were, they are probably not going to be cheap.. I got *super* lucky and randomly found a full set with caps for $50 laying in the dirt at what is basically a wheel/tire junkyard out in the boonies. I was wandering around the blackberries and random piles of junk wheels, and could not believe what I was seeing. Yes, they have separate listings for iX and RWD wheels. Basically, if it has a Hollander number, you can search for it. Whether the yard has correctly identified it or not is something you have to talk to the yard to figure out. Also, you miss the ones that yards don't correctly identify.