QUESTION ID: 1898

QUESTION:
Going between this forum and the facebook page, is like 2 different worlds. I'm assuming that the FB page has a lot of young guys on it. Their advice/solution for any problem is M5X swap. Which I understand to a degree. I wasn't on there asking for advice or anything. This is just something that I noticed.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1898_0):
Well, don't go there, or do, and evangelize for the M40B16 just to troll the posers. Any real enthusiast can appreciate a wide range of options, aesthetics and objectives. Heck, I even saw a donk on 30s yesterday and he got a thumbs up because he is a fellow enthusiast, not because I personally like his style in the least, but the passion for the hobby is very appreciated.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1898_1):
Yeah I'm not on there much. I mostly like looking at other peoples builds. I'm also not complaining either. I'm more or less pointing out how different it is.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1898_3):
Originally posted by Panici Different crowd for sure. Less attention span for reading and searching on social media, and it seems to get worse with every new platform. all the new platforms are designed to eliminate text and promote video. everyone is trying to either monetize their content or it is being used to monetize someone else. there is little or no emphasis on correct work or procedures, it's all about hacks, views, and likes now. there is a definite lack of literacy on them.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1898_4):
It's too bad. These young minds are being conditioned to accept a brief video at face value. I worry about the future if they are unable to read and decipher information for themselves.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1898_5):
^ There is a growing undercurrent of young boys embracing the "screen free" life. It's hard to quantify by the fact that they aren't on social media publicizing it. I've been teaching a series of STEM lectures in a local middle school and am seeing it first hand. Reminds me of growing up in the nineties.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1898_6):
Originally posted by AceAndrew777 ^ There is a growing undercurrent of young boys embracing the "screen free" life. It's hard to quantify by the fact that they aren't on social media publicizing it. I've been teaching a series of STEM lectures in a local middle school and am seeing it first hand. Reminds me of growing up in the nineties. i've always found a visual, pic, or even vid really helpful, but critical information to complete a task has always been text related in my lifetime. i kinda wonder what would happen if the magic box ever went down.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1898_8):
lcd watch for the win, Dick Tracy. t growing up in the 70's, it was LED, but you had to push a button to get it to light up to see what time it was, because otherwise the battery lasted 45 minutes.