QUESTION ID: 299

QUESTION:
My driver's side front wheel kind of howls/vibrates at speed. Really, its at 45mph its like a "vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv" sound, if you get my drift. But, when I turn right it goes away, but if the wheels are straight or if I turn left its there. It's frequency related because its stronger at certain speeds. I think its either the wheel bearing or the ABS. I say the ABS because my ABS light is on, and although my ABS works perfectly, I heard it kicking in at an unnecessarily slow speed last night from that wheel. Perhaps it could be the gear?

ANSWER 1 (id: 299_2):
I've got the exact same issue, but the noise goes away when I make left turns as opposed to right ones. I checked the bearings for any play (shook the wheels back and forth vertically) and they were tight...any chance it could be an alignment issue or possibly wheel balancing one?

ANSWER 2 (id: 299_3):
Originally posted by Slick33 I've got the exact same issue, but the noise goes away when I make left turns as opposed to right ones. I checked the bearings for any play (shook the wheels back and forth vertically) and they were tight...any chance it could be an alignment issue or possibly wheel balancing one? Wondering if anybody had any feedback to this. Ive got the same issues. Thanks

ANSWER 3 (id: 299_4):
Wheel bearings that are out sound like a massive howling noise coming from that area of the car, and you really only start to hear it on the highway. You almost have to shout over the noise. You can't really see anything wrong you just have to replace them, and it's a PITA. These e30's go through bearings like water-- in 240,000 miles every few years one of the bearings goes out in one of the corners, arrghggh.

ANSWER 4 (id: 299_5):
just jack up that side and tug on the top of the wheel to see if there is any slop, if so, bingo your bearings are shot. Someone go ahead and tell them where to pick up a fresh one.

ANSWER 5 (id: 299_6):
I'm having the same vibration problem. Seems to be coming from the right side of the car... NO play in vertical movement of the wheels. Tie rods?... Thanks, Les

ANSWER 6 (id: 299_7):
that is definitely wheel bearings. I had that same thing on my E30, howling from the front right, if I made a hard right hand turn it went away. What happens is when you take the weight off the bearing the noise goes away.

ANSWER 7 (id: 299_9):
i just replaced my passenger side one. it howled when i would go above 50km/h and when i made left turns it would also vibrate and would hear nothing on right turns.