QUESTION ID: 2370

QUESTION:
Has anyone done this? I’ve been searching but see no examples of any other vehicle that uses this mounting point for the cruise servo. Bmw put these tanks in late mode e30, e36 M3, and Z3 M cars. A fellow r3v member (on FB) told me he saw this method used on a Land Rover... but I can’t even find a Land Rover that actually uses this tank Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2370_1):
Originally posted by nando definitely not. There's a bracket where the airbox mounts to, which also holds the cruise control servo. does your car have the stock airbox? Some of those brackets don't have a hole for the cruise control module. I usually drill a hole and make a short strap bracket to go to the Cruise module.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2370_2):
Originally posted by twright Some of those brackets don't have a hole for the cruise control module. I usually drill a hole and make a short strap bracket to go to the Cruise module. It doesn't have it's own hole. it mounts to the stud that holds the airbox to the bracket, which you can just replace with a bolt if you don't have the airbox anymore. actually I think there's another piece the OP is missing from the cruise control module. A flat bracket that screws to the CC module, which then attaches to the airbox. I don't have the stock airbox, but it works the same.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2370_3):
BTW, I think you probably could mount it to the washer tank (my original reply wasn't worded well), but even if you could, I wouldn't do that. A cracked reservoir will definitely ruin your day. The CC module has to put some torque on that throttle to open it, and I wouldn't want those forces on a critical component of the cooling system - that's also made out of plastic.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2370_4):
Next time I'm in my engine bay I'm going to look at this. Right now I just dangle it over the coolant res. I think reaction forces from pulling the cable go into the sleeve, and I can sort of prove that because my cruise module works fine now with it just dangling. It still seems a little heavy to hang off the coolant res (which is also not held in place my much), so I'm not saying it's a great idea - but I am dumb enough to give it a shot.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2370_5):
Here is the bracket on my 1993 318i Touring and the bracket that I made to make the Cruise module fit. Is the bracket on the chassis different than yours, or is it the bracket on the Cruise module that is different?

ANSWER 6 (id: 2370_6):
Originally posted by twright Here is the bracket on my 1993 318i Touring and the bracket that I made to make the Cruise module fit. Is the bracket on the chassis different than yours, or is it the bracket on the Cruise module that is different? I think the bracket for your airbox is different (probably because it's a euro 318i which didn't come with CC). there's a small stud somewhere (can't see it in my pics) that holds it in place, kind of how your strap is, and there is only one bolt that holds it to the airbox bracket. Notice how my airbox bracket has a rolled edge on the top, and yours doesn't (this also helps lock the CC bracket in place).

ANSWER 7 (id: 2370_7):
Guys, I wasn’t asking about metal cruise control mounting brackets… I know how the thing came in an E30. My post was not intended to ask the question about how a stock set up was mounted, my post was just in reference to the fact that they’re just happens to be the exact bolt pattern for the cruise servo, on the side of the radiator expansion tank, and I wondered why is it there, and why did Bmw seemingly never use it

ANSWER 8 (id: 2370_8):
You can see in this photo how it does mount to the tank. It’s hard to see, but I also have a custom-made bracket that I made by reversing the stock cruise control mount, putting a bend in it, and welding a former coil mounting bracket onto the inner fender after adding a second stud to it. After spending all that time Fabin that bracket, it was brought to my attention that you could mount the cruise on the side of the radiator expansion tank Attached Files