QUESTION ID: 1132

QUESTION:
Just ended on eBay 1988 148k miles on chassis, in pieces No engine or transmission Rust on all four corners and needs new cowl Partial interior (no carpet, looks like no rear seat) Cracked windshield I'm not knocking the car, but that price is Feeling better about mine every day! :up: <pics deleted for Chaos> Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1132_0):
Dude this is my car and it's definitely not clapped out. I do have the rear seats as well as the headliner in the car. In all honesty the car is a great shell with minor rust.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1132_1):
Originally posted by Zinoberrot Those of you who have read my build thread know I paid around $13.5 for my '89 with 175k miles, rough in areas but it has proven to be very solid as I have dug into it more. This car is an '88, 189k miles, wrecked, rusted, incomplete interior (sitting in boxes), interior still has welds in it from a now removed roll cage and just bid up to $14.7 on eBay before not meeting reserve. [Edit: Relisted - bought for $18K] Needless to say this makes me feel pretty good about owning my E30 M. http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=345406 Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Originally posted by Zinoberrot Just ended on eBay 1988 148k miles on chassis, in pieces No engine or transmission Rust on all four corners and needs new cowl Partial interior (no carpet, looks like no rear seat) Cracked windshield I'm not knocking the car, but that price is Feeling better about mine every day! :up: Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk I think we all got your messages. Stop comparing junk M3s. What are you...a 10yr old? Ahaha :)

ANSWER 3 (id: 1132_2):
Originally posted by ChaosTheory Dude this is my car and it's definitely not clapped out. I do have the rear seats as well as the headliner in the car. In all honesty the car is a great shell with minor rust. Chaos, sorry if you thought i meant clapped out. Not what i meant at all. I'm sure the car has a ton of potential and is good in its current state. The clapping was because I'm glad to see the market continuing to climb. Selling a rolling shell for $12K in any condition is a big deal. Congrats on the sale and I hope the home buying experience goes smoothly. We went through it a year ago and we're just now feeling settled. Originally posted by 88Alpine I think we all got your messages. Stop comparing junk M3s. What are you...a 10yr old? Ahaha :) Impressive that you speak for everyone when you've been here since 2011 and have barely 150 posts - almost all of which are in classifieds or sarcastic remarks (by the way, that, not tracking the market for rare cars, is the behavior of a 10 year old). Seems like you contribute a lot around here. Chaos' car isnt junk. The white one was rough, but still not junk. Tracking the M3 market is fun. How often can you work on a car and not feel like its a moneypit? Sorry if it bugs you that I'm happy about my car and where values are going.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1132_3):
Originally posted by Zinoberrot Chaos, sorry if you thought i meant clapped out. Not what i meant at all. I'm sure the car has a ton of potential and is good in its current state. The clapping was because I'm glad to see the market continuing to climb. Selling a rolling shell for $12K in any condition is a big deal. Congrats on the sale and I hope the home buying experience goes smoothly. We went through it a year ago and we're just now feeling settled. Impressive that you speak for everyone when you've been here since 2011 and have barely 150 posts - almost all of which are in classifieds or sarcastic remarks (by the way, that, not tracking the market for rare cars, is the behavior of a 10 year old). Seems like you contribute a lot around here. Chaos' car isnt junk. The white one was rough, but still not junk. Tracking the M3 market is fun. How often can you work on a car and not feel like its a moneypit? Sorry if it bugs you that I'm happy about my car and where values are going. Cars are continuing to rise and that is a sure sign of high demand, regardless of condition. With prices of mint cars increasing, this also pulls the prices of shells higher. Where a 30k car four years ago is now a 60-70k car. A 8k shell 4 years ago, is now pulling 12. Still fair and right on line of what it should have pulled. Buyers are getting desperate, and almost all of the time willing to spend less than half, and build the car to their own liking. For example, the buyer in this case, probably has everything lined up with a plan to bring this back on the road, with a build that is unique, for a lot less than buying a 30k+ car then modifying it. Deals are still out there, such as your case for example, many others have purchased bargain M3's from owners that were either tired, or less knowledgable than the current buyer market. Also, Tony is a good guy, and has contributed a lot to the forums, maybe not here as much, but on S14 and the local community he has been a great asset. In short, buy as many M3's as you possibly can as soon as you can!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1132_4):
Originally posted by Zinoberrot Impressive that you speak for everyone when you've been here since 2011 and have barely 150 posts - almost all of which are in classifieds or sarcastic remarks (by the way, that, not tracking the market for rare cars, is the behavior of a 10 year old). Seems like you contribute a lot around here. Chaos' car isnt junk. The white one was rough, but still not junk. Tracking the M3 market is fun. How often can you work on a car and not feel like its a moneypit? Sorry if it bugs you that I'm happy about my car and where values are going. I don't speak for everyone, per se, but hope everyone understands what I meant. Congratulations on your $13.5k M3 purchase. You do understand that the buyers of those 2 M3s maybe be r3v members, right? I think the last thing they want to hear is you rubbing in their faces about how rusty their cars are and how you got yours cheaper. Imo, one victory dance is good enough. Judging me by the number of my posts, really? I'm also on s14.net since 2006 under the sn "AlpineM3" with only 365 posts thus far, damn. Well, at least I'm nearly finished with my 2nd M3 build. Maybe I should focus on posting online more; instead of spending my time wrenching on my cars, searching for parts, building motors, going out to tuner shops, meet and share ideas with the local car guys. Well, at least you realized my "barely 150 posts" were classified and sarcastic. That being said, don't think the two M3s you mentioned were ever junk. It's the attitude of the owner that makes him either a junk or a scholar. I just now have a change of heart. I'm actually looking forward to your next rusty M3 thread with your "Feeling better about my M3 purchase everyday." You go on with your bad self, lol ;)

ANSWER 6 (id: 1132_5):
Look, you're the one who said "stop comparing junk M3s". I'm just commenting on which cars sold for what price, and condition is part of tracking the market. Its not an insult, its a fact. Feeling good about my car (thus, the market) shouldn't make anyone feel bad - they bought an appreciating asset - good for them! Some work and those cars will be worth even more. If you bought a rusted 190SL ten years ago for 25K and fixed it up, you'd be well in the black by now by a LOT. I'm not saying these people are making bad choices, I'm tracking the market as it goes up. This is an M3 forum, people on here who have M3s will be happy to see these sale prices as well. A rising tide floats all boats - as JFK would say. I do see your point about bringing up what I paid, it can come off as tacky, so no need to keep bringing it back up. That said, the price has been brought up four times, twice by me and twice by you. So if it bothers you, shut up about it and the problem is gone. I was going to go back to suggesting you contribute something instead of just making noise, but I'll take GoodGuy at his word. With two builds under your belt, why not post more on what you've done? I'm sure you could be helpful, and helpful is a good attitude for an owner wouldn't you say?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1132_6):
^sorry man, my way of contributing is far different from yours. Fortunately, that has been working fine for decades. Plus, I'm oldschool and am way past my teenage years. I must say I do miss the good 'ol days of the M3 crowd. I remember when owners just have fun with their M3s instead of "I'm tracking the market as it goes up" or craps like that. If you want to see what cars I own and owned, just do a search as I sometimes randomly posted my cars here and there. Heck, if you are too lazy to search, just pm me your email and I will gladly send you pics and videos. GL on whatever you do.