QUESTION ID: 2968

QUESTION:
Found this about 40 minutes away from me: https://decatur.craigslist.org/cto/d...372940554.html Assuming everything is as he says it is would this be a good deal? I know it would be if it was an i but I don't have any experience with the e and es.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2968_1):
If that is what you are looking for probably a good clean car for the price. Flyboy is right, but if you like it you could probably negotiate him down a bit.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2968_10):
My first E30 was a Zinno ES, but nowhere near as good condition as that one. in the 4-4500 range its probably a good buy since its probably up to date on all maintenance

ANSWER 3 (id: 2968_12):
I think it is fairly priced given the nice looking interior and if the car has no rust. Those are both expensive to rectify so if you're not having to deal with those, you're money ahead. For that price, I'd make sure that all of the electronics and electrical system are working. Cluster rebuilds, window motors, blower motors, etc. can add up fast. Why is it still for sale? Some folks are not fans of the "E" cars. I do not count myself amongst them.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2968_3):
Originally posted by roguetoaster It seems like a fair deal, however, having been listed for nearly a month means it's negotiation time. +1 Considering it's in very clean shape and been for sale for a significant amount of time, I suspect problems/issues. A clean stock e30 in this shape should have been sold almost instantly at that price.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2968_4):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella +1 Considering it's in very clean shape and been for sale for a significant amount of time, I suspect problems/issues. A clean stock e30 in this shape should have been sold almost instantly at that price. Would it matter that this is central Illinois probably a 3 hour drive from Chicago? I looked around and he didn't cross post on any forums or anywhere else.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2968_5):
Originally posted by MrPyromaniac Would it matter that this is central Illinois probably a 3 hour drive from Chicago? I looked around and he didn't cross post on any forums or anywhere else. Not all E30 owners are enthusiasts. You should get more pics, maybe a vid of the car running before heading there.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2968_8):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella +1 Considering it's in very clean shape and been for sale for a significant amount of time, I suspect problems/issues. A clean stock e30 in this shape should have been sold almost instantly at that price. Exactly. Be diligent when you check the car out. Test drive it thoroughly.