QUESTION ID: 3220

QUESTION:
Since this is a forum full of gearheads and general "makers" I am sure there is a lot of knowledge on quality tools floating around. I often spend hours researching options and reading reviews before I make new tool purchases but its still great to get some hands on perspective before purchasing. Post up your questions, post up your reviews and post up good deals! Please include brand and model number at minimum.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3220_1):
So I am in the market for a new shop vac and a metal cutting saw. Shop vac: link here I am strongly considering the Rigid 4gal 5hp portable shop vac pn WD4050. I've read a lot of good reviews and at $80 it seems to be a great balance of power, portability, and price. I intend to use it for auto detailing, vacuuming my apartment and other odds and ends so I probably won't be straining it at all. Compact size is important because I don't have much space. Has anybody used this one and have any comments? Metal saw: Not really sure which direction to go here. I'm considering a traditional abrasive chop saw, evolution rage cold cut miter chop saw, or a bench top chop-band saw. Ideally I'd get a true cold cut metal saw, but I don't have the space or funds. Budget is ~150-250 Metal saws I'm considering: Bench top band saw Evolution Rage 3 cold cut Abrasive chop saw - there are lots of choices here, does anyone have an abrasive chop saw that they prefer? And some brief reviews/recommendations for tools I own: Cordless drill/impact driver Milwaukee M18 brushless drill/driver I love these to death. They are two of my most used tools, the impact driver is probably the most used tool I own. It packs some big power and makes assembly/disassembly ridiculously quick. I used to use the air compressor and air tools frequently for this kind of work, but the impact driver has all but replaced it. Only pull out the impact gun for the bigger jobs now. Worth every penny. The rest of the milwaukee tool lineup seems pretty fantastic too. I also just added the cordless sawzall to the collection and it's a beast. Hand tools: Craftsman for wrenches, screwdrivers, sockets etc. - budget friendly, good quality, unbeatable lifetime warranty (I've cashed in on that several times with the screwdrivers with zero hassle) - yea sears is not doing so well but I recently read an article that they are selling the craftsman brand to stanley/black&decker who will be honoring the warranty so maybe sears will die but craftsman will live on knipex for pliers, wire cutters etc. - not too expensive but extremely high quality. Just search a few of their tools on amazon and see some of the universally high ratings, they are totally accurate. The tools are almost so nice I don't want to use them milwaukee for locking pliers - I have a pair of the traditional locking pliers and a pair of locking C clamp and I love them both. The best feature of these pliers is the adjuster/tightner. It has a loop in it so you can stick a screwdriver through it and really crank it tight in a way you couldn't do with a traditional knob.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3220_2):
Originally posted by noid The garagejournal forum is the best for this kind of thing. Particularly for tool brands in europe and japan. yea I've read a few threads there but don't really frequent that site too much. I spend way more of my time on r3v as I'm sure a lot of others do too. Nothing wrong with linking relevant GJ threads though!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3220_3):
bandsaw for general flexibility. abrasive saws make a mess and are really noisy AND cut slightly tapered on an old wheel. The inexpensive HF stationary one can be made to work if you are persistent. t

ANSWER 4 (id: 3220_4):
For general metal working projects the red Harbor Freight 4"x6" Vertical/Horizontal Band Saw is a killer option, and can be had for around $200. Get a good blade, dial it in a little and you're good to go. I run that thing all day sometimes when I have a big project going on. I do a lot of metal working in my shop and have tried a few different options, including a dry cut chop saw (MK Morse model) and always land back on the ol' HF bandsaw. I love that thing.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3220_7):
Originally posted by Matt-B Anyone here used the"long reach" 2-3 ton harbor freight jack, for any extended period of time? my 1.5 ton, was shot after like 1-2 years Is that the super low profile/long reach one? I've had their regular low profile 3 ton jack for 8-9 years now. No issues. Just today I greased the front wheels for the first time ever. I've been eyeing that low profile/long reach one for a while. It would be very useful.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3220_8):
Originally posted by TobyB bandsaw for general flexibility. abrasive saws make a mess and are really noisy AND cut slightly tapered on an old wheel. The inexpensive HF stationary one can be made to work if you are persistent. t Originally posted by CubbyChowder For general metal working projects the red Harbor Freight 4"x6" Vertical/Horizontal Band Saw is a killer option, and can be had for around $200. Get a good blade, dial it in a little and you're good to go. I run that thing all day sometimes when I have a big project going on. I do a lot of metal working in my shop and have tried a few different options, including a dry cut chop saw (MK Morse model) and always land back on the ol' HF bandsaw. I love that thing. Thanks for the feedback! I've been eyeing that model for a while as well but am wary of HF power tools like that. I posted up that WEN chop/band saw since I have an amazon gift card burning a hole in my pocket. Don't need to make a decision for a while since I mainly want this for an exhaust project that won't happen for a month or two. Also, I bought the rigid shop vac I mentioned earlier and it is awesome. Definitely recommend.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3220_9):
Ridgid for all shop vacs. Get the biggest HP you can. I never run out of room in mine (can always empty it) but you always wish for a little more power (turbo shopvac?). I always check garage journal for anything garage related: flooring, lighting, painting, tools, heating, cooling, insulating, etc.