QUESTION ID: 3192

QUESTION:
I'm looking at getting into an e30 325is or 325i coupe. I want to either buy the car to enjoy it or buy it with the hopes of reselling it and making some money. I previously had a blobeye wrx but I recently totaled it :(. The two cars I'm looking at are both facelift models with 5 speeds. I'll see if i can attach some pics. Error 404 (Not Found)!!1 https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0BxmfEZSHnPCSZ0ZscUM4MWlZZXM?usp=sharing the high miles yet very clean 325is supposedly has no issues and pretty much no rust. Although the person knew very little about e30s so take that with a grain of salt. The car has 254,000 miles. the other car on the other hand odo had stopped at 160,000 and has a salvage title aswell, the owner said it had these problems: Struggles with cold start but once started and warmed up runs and drives fine Original suspension, loose feeling but nothing broken still drives everyday Driver seat reclining bracket broken but still drivable (shown in photo) Only the 2 rust spots (shown in photo) Leaks oil from front cam seal Speedo and odo not working but every other gauge works I've always wanted an e30 and I could get the 325is for about 2,500 or the white coupe for about 1,900. Are those good prices? Or should I a man with no mechanical experience just call it quits? I also work in an auto-shop however, so I can get parts cheap and may have certain resources to do autowork, I still however do not have any experience. Thanks! To sum it up I'm wondering what a fair price for those cars is and if the work to maintain them or get them running right is out of my league or feasible.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3192_0):
The black car seems fine for $2500, outside of the obvious valence/crash damage you need to inspect the underside and typical E30 rust areas. While I encourage anyone to buy something with the hope of making a profit when you sell in X amount of time it's much easier to do so if you know the car you are working with or you risk getting burned by common, by easily overlooked issues. We can't say if owning either is outside of your capabilities as we don't know your level of experience, availability of work space, or income. Welcome to r3v, and thanks for making your first post decent.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3192_1):
Getting a car that will require some work is an excellent way to learn. I would ignore the white E30, especially when comparing it to the black 325is. The price difference of 600 is minimal IMO. Scoop up the 325is and have some fun! Welcome to R3v.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3192_10):
A 2 door late 325is with a straight body and decent interior will sell fast at that price. If it runs like shit and you have 2k to invest in it, who cares how it runs. With that budget you'll be able to make it run beautifully with money to spare if you do the work yourself. Llike the others said, fuck miles, if it has a good history that's what truly matters. And stop fucking your cars up lol

ANSWER 4 (id: 3192_11):
Lol the wrx was pure stupidity but the auto actually went up the first time I drove it. I'm pretty sure it was due to the fact that I revved the car (i took of the rusty exhaust) in my driveway and supposedly those trans hate being revved in neutral or park or whatnot. But thanks for the guidance! I'll go and look at the 325is this weekend and hopefully buy it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3192_13):
Go check out the black IS like right now! That car would have sold in less than an hour after posting in Cali or the entire west coast for that matter.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3192_2):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is Getting a car that will require some work is an excellent way to learn. I would ignore the white E30, especially when comparing it to the black 325is. The price difference of 600 is minimal IMO. Scoop up the 325is and have some fun! Welcome to R3v. qft. If I was in your area, I'd probably buy the black one today.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3192_3):
Thank you for the welcome. I know this is extremely hard to tell from just a few photos but what would you deem the value of the two cars to be? And I previously flipped a facelift auto sedan and ended up making about 300 dollars. I bought the car for 500 fully running and would of really made a killing but then I hooned it to much and the auto trans went up. But that dosent really relate to the post. However, I know a thing or to about e30s but still not much. Thanks for the welcome! I have the money if I need to fix something but my income is pretty low (I'm still in high school) so I really do not want any serious work that would need to be done. I could invest about 2 grand in parts and stuff if I knew there was going to be a return. But I don't want to spend money to keep a broken car running. 254,xxx isn't to many for an e30? thanks again for the advice!

ANSWER 8 (id: 3192_4):
Reality is miles on a 30year old car mean nothing. I've seen cars with 350,000 miles that i would happily own, and if seen some with 140,000 miles that id never touch. For me the thing that gives an old car "worth" is body condition, paint and rust. Everything else can be fixed using spanners by a home gamer. There are not enough photos to determine the rust situation, under the carpet? battery box?

ANSWER 9 (id: 3192_5):
We can't tell you what either car is actually worth without real pictures or an in person inspection, so if you want values you'll have to take what you know about theses cars and compare it to advertised prices locally. 1,000,000 miles is not too many for an E30 that's been maintained, mileage to most enthusiasts means very little and it's condition that's the main factor. However, you may not be selling to enthusiasts, so mileage will probably be a factor to the general public.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3192_6):
Originally posted by The30man Thank you for the welcome. I know this is extremely hard to tell from just a few photos but what would you deem the value of the two cars to be? And I previously flipped a facelift auto sedan and ended up making about 300 dollars. I bought the car for 500 fully running and would of really made a killing but then I hooned it to much and the auto trans went up. But that dosent really relate to the post. However, I know a thing or to about e30s but still not much. Thanks for the welcome! I have the money if I need to fix something but my income is pretty low (I'm still in high school) so I really do not want any serious work that would need to be done. I could invest about 2 grand in parts and stuff if I knew there was going to be a return. But I don't want to spend money to keep a broken car running. 254,xxx isn't to many for an e30? thanks again for the advice! Mileage is deemed by many on this forum to be irrelevant. Knowing the cars history is far more valuable. If you are really worried about getting into trouble with repairs, find someone near you who can go check out the car with you. Preferably someone who knows E30's well. The pictures you provided us with wont tell us enough to get the certainty in an answer that you are looking for.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3192_9):
Originally posted by The30man I previously had a blobeye wrx but I recently totaled it :(. Originally posted by The30man then I hooned it too much and the auto trans went up.