QUESTION ID: 2348

QUESTION:
So, who's going? Our silent admin overlords mysteriously locked the thread on the main page, relegating it to "regional" which I'm pretty sure nobody ever looks at.. anyway: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...nic-we-re-back I saw a couple people from my local area are registered, but I don't know them. I think Steve is going (hoveringuy) with his N52 swapped E30. I need tires (currently driving on snows, lol, but only short distances), but I'm planning on going for the first time since like 2009. Anyone else local or from R3v in general? If you ever saw my car 10 years ago.. well, it looks pretty much the same, only with more miles, more rock chips, and peeling clear coat on the roof. meh.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2348_1):
For some reason I decided to start an engine swap less than a month before the picnic so I may not be bringing a car but I'll probably show up since it's only a few miles from my house.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2348_3):
I swear it rained in 3 or 4 picnics I went to back in the day it's going to be like 106-107 in Tacoma on Sunday. Yeah, us PNWers are not built for that kind of weather.. lol I'm bringing a shade tent and probably a bunch of water/gatorade. I've had heat exhaustion before, it really sucks and it can get even worse fast if you can't cool down. stay safe and drink water or die!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2348_4):
I'm 90% sure that I'll be going, the extreme heat forecast is a huge turnoff. I've had heat exhaustion before as well, and have never been the same afterwards, all these years.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2348_5):
imma pack a cooler with 6 bags of ice. 4 gallons of water 2 of which will be frozen, a big fuckin straw hat which will be soaked with water all day. lots of gatorade... and a watermelon. gonna pack an umbrella as well and sun screen... gonna suck but I've waited too long for this... let's roll. sent from hell using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 2348_6):
Yeah, I'm coming prepared too. If you're dying of thirst, come see me.. I'll probably have a couple extra waters, lol. Originally posted by Sepp I'm 90% sure that I'll be going, the extreme heat forecast is a huge turnoff. I've had heat exhaustion before as well, and have never been the same afterwards, all these years. I think it'll be OK if you're prepared. The heat itself I don't think is that crazy, it's more that people here are just not used to it, plus it's super humid which makes it feel even hotter. I'm honestly pretty sure I've never experienced over 100 degrees in my life though.. Still, I'm more worried about the car (but not that worried).