QUESTION ID: 1634

QUESTION:
This is an idea that has been floating around in my head for years and I am excited to finally offer a new product to the community, this one is for my fellow early model E30 owners out there! It's a rear diving board bumper facelift kit and I call it "The High Dive". It utilizes custom brackets to relocate the factory diving board bumper as high and tight to the body as possible and is finished off with custom sheet metal trim panels to eliminate the original rubber trim entirely, resulting in a slim and refined bumper setup. Designed and produced in my shop in San Luis Obispo, CA. I built all the necessary tooling and fixtures to manufacture these kits in house, and I am ready for production. For now, kits will be built to order so please allow 1-2 weeks to produce and ship. Installation is simple and straight forward. Reuses the original bumper mounting hardware and 3 self-tapping screws per side. Kits are shipped in a raw steel finish and will need to be painted or powder coated before use. I've been an E30 enthusiast for a decade now, having owned several examples and spending countless hours working on them, I've gotten to know these cars pretty well. I've always had a soft spot for early model E30's, the slim tail lights and taller rear fender arches really do it for me. Like many others out there, I feel the diving board bumpers are a big downfall for the styling of the car, especially in the rear. Options to address this are limited, often being rare, expensive and/or labor intensive (Euro bumpers or plastic bumper conversion). I set out to create a simple alternative utilizing the parts that are already on the car, and The High Dive was born. As of right now, fitment is confirmed for 1984-1987 coupe's and sedan's. Early model Convertibles and 1988 year models are not yet confirmed as there are some minor differences but I'm hopeful. Will confirm in time. Kits are $249. As a promotion, I am offering Free Shipping in the US for orders placed in the next 24 hours! To place an order, visit my site www.gaumannco.com I also accept Venmo and Paypal if you prefer to purchase that way. Just message me and I'll get you squared away. Instagram: @gaumann_co Plus a few Before and After's!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1634_10):
Thanks guys! I am now making the side trim panels out of CNC laser cut aluminum, they weigh next to nothing and will never rust, they are a great upgrade from the original sheet metal design in my opinion. Also, fun fact, running this kit shaves 10lbs off the rear of the car over the stock diving board setup! I've been busy with my M50 swap the past couple weeks but hope to get back to developing some more kits in the near future. I added another new product recently as well: Cow Catcher foglight delete panels. Louvered design, CNC laser cut aluminum and bent in house. A simple alternative to the rare and often missing foglights.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1634_3):
Fantastic idea and well executed - outstanding. I'm sure you've got more ideas cooking....but consider making something like this for the E21 US front bumper....I'll beg if I have to....

ANSWER 3 (id: 1634_4):
Saw this on faceballs. Super cool. I had planned on converting to plastic bumpers but this seems just as cool. I know I might be in the minority here but any plans for marker lights in the future?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1634_5):
Thanks for the kind words everyone! I'm really happy to see that people are liking this idea and I'm excited to expand on it further. Working on developing a front kit to match the rear so I can offer a package deal, and would like to develop a front/rear kit for the E28 crowd as well (and possibly other models, I see your E21 request mjweimer ) Adding the option to retain side markers is definitely in the works and was always a part of my plan. Just had to put it out there and gauge interest first

ANSWER 5 (id: 1634_7):
Originally posted by CubbyChowder Adding the option to retain side markers is definitely in the works and was always a part of my plan. Just had to put it out there and gauge interest first Can't wait. I'll buy as soon as they're out!