QUESTION ID: 3083

QUESTION:
Hello all, As you have read over the past day or so R3V headquarters was destroyed by a serious fire. I have created a GoFundMe page to help James & his roommate Jeff rebuild. Please donate if you can. Donate to James & Jeff support fund, organized by Chris Forsythe https://www.gofundme.com/james-jeff-support-fund James Crivellone & his roomate Jeff Thompson recently lost their house to a serious fire. Th… Chris Forsythe needs your support for James & Jeff support fund Thank you, -Chris Forsythe "BMWSUN"

ANSWER 1 (id: 3083_3):
It is amazing that r3v and friends/family have smashed Chris' original goal in less that one day! #community I heart r3v because r3v has heart. Best wishes to James and Jeff!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3083_4):
Folks, IMO the goal of $5k should be closer to $10k easy. Insurance never covers all of the stuff that needs attention. Imagine losing your house and everything in it. This is the case here. James has been a pillar of the national E30 community. If you can throw down $10 or $20 that will help push this to $10k. If you have donated, feel free to post here to keep this thread bouncing up and getting the attention it needs. Do it!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3083_5):
Does anyone have a Paypal link for donations? Lots of money in my Paypal that I want to pay forward, but I can't find a way to pay with Paypal through the gofundme. Thanks!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3083_6):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is Does anyone have a Paypal link for donations? Lots of money in my Paypal that I want to pay forward, but I can't find a way to pay with Paypal through the gofundme. Thanks! use a paypal debit card

ANSWER 5 (id: 3083_8):
Like Lance said - they lost everything. Just day to day stuff like clothes and what not. It's pretty hard to imagine being in that same situation. There's a lot of this community that he helped create, by and through this website. I don't think he's ever asked for anything from this site's users, but I think this is one of those times where the members are helping to give back. Maybe this can be stickied for now?