QUESTION ID: 1723

QUESTION:
I posted this in the Interior sub, but it's...quiet there, so: My headliner isn't in great shape, and I notice CAT makes a couple headliner options (an OEM style and a suede). I'm mighty tempted to go with the suede, but I'm hoping to do it myself and wondering (A) How hard the job is in general (I did watch their video, which made it look...achievable...) (B) Whether the suede is harder than the OEM (seems like it would have less stretch)​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1723_0):
Weather will be your friend. Wait until a nice warm day so the fabric will stretch naturally. NC has plenty of humidity which will also help. How much window/sunroof stuff has to be worked with will certainly be a factor.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1723_1):
Supposedly they use Relicate fabrics, and apparently you can call Relicate and ask for an E30 sunroof mold. Haven't done it myself so it may be a myth.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1723_2):
Originally posted by AWDBOB Supposedly they use Relicate fabrics, and apparently you can call Relicate and ask for an E30 sunroof mold. Haven't done it myself so it may be a myth. I just called them - they don't do any pre-sewn kits, just the material.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1723_3):
Originally posted by packratbimmer Weather will be your friend. Wait until a nice warm day so the fabric will stretch naturally. NC has plenty of humidity which will also help. How much window/sunroof stuff has to be worked with will certainly be a factor. My car is a 2-door with sunroof. In their "How To" video, they started with the sunroof for attachment. From the look of it, the big things appear to be corners and making sure the rods/lines in the back stay parallel/square. But...

ANSWER 5 (id: 1723_4):
Lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of binder clips. And then more binder clips. I start at the back, with the most rearward roof attachment, and then work forward, but since you'll be readjusting several times, it's not too critical. I find the roof attachments to be easiest to get done first, and there's the most room to work if you're facing the back of the car. After that it's stretch, heat, readjust, stretch, heat, readjust. I ended up having to resew what I used but it was from a different source a long time ago... t

ANSWER 6 (id: 1723_6):
I learned about their headliners because I saw them listed on DeltaParkAuto's site up here. Considering a sunroof delete since panels are hard to find/expensive, and I could use the headroom, and I saw they make a non-sunroof version. So I'm interested in any review/procedure/lessons learned...

ANSWER 7 (id: 1723_8):
Originally posted by packratbimmer Does the rear window need to be out? Quarter windows out? My understanding is Front and rear glass out, quarter windows stay in place Originally posted by SLH350 I'm about to order one, I'll update with my experience. That would be very awesome!