QUESTION ID: 3194

QUESTION:
I found it on a E28, it has a small ball bearing inside that moves freely inside of it. One end is threaded. Does anyone know what it is?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3194_0):
Reading the title, totally expected to see a pic of a person. Like example A: From the design perspective, it's something meant to restrict pressure from the threaded end from passing through, my first thought was something related to brakes.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3194_10):
Well, on that note, it was the eighties after all. It's actually an official oem BMW cocaine snorting straw. No self respecting, bimmer driving, coke addict would dare be seen in a club using a dirty rolled up hundred dollar bill. Hell no! The check valve is actually to keep the powder from shooting back out of your nose when you sneeze.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3194_11):
Originally posted by flyboyx Well, on that note, it was the eighties after all. It's actually an official oem BMW cocaine snorting straw. No self respecting, bimmer driving, coke addict would dare be seen in a club using a dirty rolled up hundred dollar bill. Hell no! The check valve is actually to keep the powder from shooting back out of your nose when you sneeze. Lawl!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3194_12):
Originally posted by djjerme Reading the title, totally expected to see a pic of a person. Like example A: From the design perspective, it's something meant to restrict pressure from the threaded end from passing through, my first thought was something related to brakes. That and Flyboy's post made me laugh out loud at work. :thankyou:

ANSWER 5 (id: 3194_3):
Originally posted by djjerme Reading the title, totally expected to see a pic of a person. Like example A: From the design perspective, it's something meant to restrict pressure from the threaded end from passing through, my first thought was something related to brakes. I was thinking is was either air/tires related or brakes as you mentioned. I spent a couple hours trying to google it but came up empty. Thanks

ANSWER 6 (id: 3194_4):
Originally posted by Exodus_2pt0 If you blow through it, does it let air pass from the thread side, but not towards the threads? Looks like a self bleeder. I have not tried blowing through it. I'll give a try once I get home tonight. Thanks

ANSWER 7 (id: 3194_6):
Originally posted by flyboyx are you assuming it's a BMW made tool, or are you simply saying you found it laying in an e28? I'm assuming this is a BMW made tool as I found it in the E28 tool tray in trunk in the foam insert that BMW put the spare bulbs in. It has same feel and color of the window tool.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3194_7):
it's a kidney-stone release tool. You thread it into your urethra to let the little bastards escape. the ball bearing is a check valve so they can't crawl back up inside. ;)

ANSWER 9 (id: 3194_8):
Originally posted by nando it's a kidney-stone release tool. You thread it into your urethra to let the little bastards escape. the ball bearing is a check valve so they can't crawl back up inside. ;) You speak from experience? Lol