QUESTION ID: 86

QUESTION:
Hello i got an issue used a impact wrench and must have tightened it to much i stripped the inside of where the bolt goes

ANSWER 1 (id: 86_1):
Originally posted by 82eye probably have to tap it to the next size up. maybe try a helicoil. Some of the inner thread is still inside the head, how shall i remove that

ANSWER 2 (id: 86_10):
Originally posted by 82eye try run a tap through first. it may be enough to clean things up and get enough. also check the engine hanger behind the cover, pretty sure it was threaded on mine. the only thing that bolt holds is the cover. Thank you for the advice i was tripping for a sec i thought i messed up the engine and had to to take it to machine shop

ANSWER 3 (id: 86_11):
A Helicoil should be just fine for that. To use one, you'll have to drill out the hole and re-tap it to a larger size before inserting the Helicoil. Just be careful to monitor the depth of your drill bit to avoid breaking through the casting. Also, tape off anything that shouldn't get metal shavings in it. It should be an easy repair, just take your time.

ANSWER 4 (id: 86_2):
try the helicoil first. there's not much clamping force needed there. you might have to run a drill through if you re tap. check the hanger the bolt runs through as it may have been threaded as well, if it is not damaged it may be enough to hold the front cover. never use an impact on engine parts.

ANSWER 5 (id: 86_4):
Originally posted by uturn Helicoils may be cheaper but you really want to use an insert. Insert is overkill. That bolt doesn't need a lot of clamping force. Helicoil will do the job easily.

ANSWER 6 (id: 86_5):
Originally posted by 82eye try the helicoil first. there's not much clamping force needed there. you might have to run a drill through if you re tap. check the hanger the bolt runs through as it may have been threaded as well, if it is not damaged it may be enough to hold the front cover. never use an impact on engine parts. Thank you for the advice,,, do you know the size of helicoil to use?

ANSWER 7 (id: 86_6):
Originally posted by 82eye try the helicoil first. there's not much clamping force needed there. you might have to run a drill through if you re tap. check the hanger the bolt runs through as it may have been threaded as well, if it is not damaged it may be enough to hold the front cover. never use an impact on engine parts. Yes i know now to never use an impact lol

ANSWER 8 (id: 86_7):
Originally posted by jbontke Insert is overkill. That bolt doesn't need a lot of clamping force. Helicoil will do the job easily. Thanks for the advice helicoil it is,, some of the thread is still inside does that matter?

ANSWER 9 (id: 86_8):
Originally posted by Jako212 Thank you for the advice,,, do you know the size of helicoil to use? i was taught to fix or re-tap lol. there are charts to find the correct size if you use a heli.

ANSWER 10 (id: 86_9):
Originally posted by Jako212 Thanks for the advice helicoil it is,, some of the thread is still inside does that matter? try run a tap through first. it may be enough to clean things up and get enough. also check the engine hanger behind the cover, pretty sure it was threaded on mine. the only thing that bolt holds is the cover.