QUESTION ID: 1897
TOPIC: clutch_replacement

QUESTION:
Looking for some help with my 1988 E30 M3. About a year ago, took the car for a weekend drive. After filling up at a gas station, car started making a loud "clicking" noise from under the chassis. It was speed-dependent but not engine-dependent. Sounded like a stick stuck in a spoke. Despite various conditions (in gear, neutral, clutch in or out), the clicking persisted as the car rolled. It later became intermittent, disappearing the next morning but reappearing over a speed bump. I brought the car to a local BMW shop that I used since the 90s, but they couldn't replicate the issue. After six months and additional unrelated service, I finally picked up the car and of course, on the way home, the clicking returned. Called shop, they said they wouldn't be able to take it back for several weeks. Next morning, went to move the car, clutch stuck to the floor. On top of that, the car now won't go into any gear. Towed it another independent BMW shop who offered to help ASAP, they removed the transmission, finding it still wouldn't shift but clutch and associated components (slave and master cylinders) all looked fine. So...we figure at this point it's a bad trans and maybe that was the source of the "clicking". So I reached out to Metric Mechanic. They quoted $4500 for a rebuild with a 4-week wait. Wow. OK so still doesn't explain the clutch pedal to the floor - unless it does? Metric mechanic thinks two separate issues, but I don't believe in coincidences' - first clicking, then clutch to floor and no ability to put into gear. Options now are: - Rebuild Trans with Metric Mechanic. Pros are it will be new, cons are time and the fact the shop can't keep the car inside. I'd have to tow it home until trans is back. - Put in a replacement trans - hopefully can find quicker than 4 weeks but now numbers won't match (trans/engine). - Combo of both - find a replacement trans temporarily, drive car home, send trans out to Metric Mechanic, I'll have extra trans. - Find someone more local or who has experience (NY/NJ area) rebuilding these. Thoughts, opinions are welcome. Again I'm located in Northern NJ.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1897_2):
agree with AWDBOB reach out for another opinion. clutch to the floor sounds like a hydraulic issue. it shouldn't relate direct to trans internals. i'd try solve for that first, the trans rebuild sounds pricey, you could probably do better on cost. edit : do you have a dogleg trans ? that may effect pricing, i'm not familiar with them at all.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1897_4):
I'm not even sure that noise is coming from the drivetrain. Pull off each of the wheels and look for something touching a brake caliper or a wheel. Don't spend a bunch of money on the transmission until you're sure that that is the source of your problem.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1897_6):
Quick update - all new clutch components, new slave/master cylinders, and a complete reinstallation of the transmission with all new parts has completely solved the problem. There was (thankfully) no issue with the gearbox. And better news - the clicking news was also fixed. It was the center support bearing. Thanks for everyone's help and input - the fact that most people were in agreement that it couldn't have been the trans solidified my plan to just rebuild everything as-is and see where we got. And thankfully, that decision led to saving me a ton of headaches, let alone costs.