QUESTION ID: 172

QUESTION:
I bought a sunroof "seal" on eBay and just installed it. I've been trying to close my sunroof for an hour and I can't get it as the new seal is thicker than the original. Can someone tell if I have the wrong seal from the photos attached? I'm also confused as RealOEM shows two sunroof seals, but I believe my car only has one seal...

ANSWER 1 (id: 172_0):
Originally posted by TB123 I bought a sunroof "seal" on eBay and just installed it. I've been trying to close my sunroof for an hour and I can't get it as the new seal is thicker than the original. Can someone tell if I have the wrong seal from the photos attached? I'm also confused as RealOEM shows two sunroof seals, but I believe my car only has one seal... looks like the new seal i got. there is a choice of a one piece, or two piece seal. they both do the same job. most opt for the single.

ANSWER 2 (id: 172_1):
The above is accurate. New seal first close can be very tight consider closing it while observing the issue or very gently helping from the outside while you crank or press the button. Your sunroof may also be somewhat out of alignment or otherwise need adjustment. Don't jump right to this conclusion as I find adjustment to be annoying at best. I don't recall what the seal looks like exactly.

ANSWER 3 (id: 172_3):
Originally posted by reelizmpro It doesn't look like it's installed correctly. Did you verify it's the correct part? There’s really only one way it can be installed. I don’t think there is anyway this is going to fit. I’ve spent hours with it and I think it’s simply too thick. I can order the OEM seal if needed, but before I do, can anyone recommend any aftermarket sunroof seals that fit?

ANSWER 4 (id: 172_4):
I've never had great experience with anything other than OEM sunroof seals. Ordered two from aftermarket sources and OEM was the only one that worked well

ANSWER 5 (id: 172_5):
Originally posted by TB123 There’s really only one way it can be installed. I don’t think there is anyway this is going to fit. I’ve spent hours with it and I think it’s simply too thick. I can order the OEM seal if needed, but before I do, can anyone recommend any aftermarket sunroof seals that fit? It doesn't look right and I didn't realize it was aftermarket until later. What is the brand, Uro?