QUESTION ID: 1961

QUESTION:
*cracks knuckles* I was super proud that my car still had its original crack-free windshield with the BMW logo in the corner until today. I was driving on the freeway behind another car when we approached the back of a semi with a tall bed but no roof. It was full of gravel that was blowing up and out and smacking the car and windshield for a good two miles. We couldn’t pass the semi because it was driving next to another semi so we were boxed in. I kept my distance at least 200 feet but the rocks kept coming. I called the trucking company and they said they’ll see if they can have someone come out and repair the glass. I see BMW still makes original glass for these cars. Do you think I should push for a new windshield or does a repair suffice? You can see the rocks falling from the truck in the pic attached. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1961_0):
Unfortunately that windshield is done. On the upside, new glass will be significantly clearer then the weathered window on your car. If that was me, I'd be slowing way down/pulling over until the truck was FAR away.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1961_2):
I came here expecting the rocks to win and was not disappointed. I put an aftermarket windshield in two of my cars. Even if the aftermarket glass is lower quality, it was such a noticeable improvement over the original pitted windshield that I was thrilled to have such a clear view. On that note, I think it's just about time to replace the pitted (but not cracked) windshield in my current e30.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1961_3):
god that sucks. there is a lot of gravel pits nearby, i know the gravel truck drivers literally have contests between them to see how many windshields they can take out. a bunch got stopped and fined heavily last year. the police set up a roadblock, anyone not covering the load got smacked. other drivers claimed they were doing it on purpose.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1961_4):
I feel that pain, hopefully the truck company comes to the part and replaces it as that cant be repaired. Aftermarket glasses I think are nicer than OEM as they have a tint band across the top.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1961_5):
Where are you guys getting aftermarket windshields from? Last summer when my windshield cracked the couple local places I deal with told me they were backordered. I ended up getting a bmw windshield from a junkyard but it's not in great shape.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1961_6):
Originally posted by kyleconstantine Where are you guys getting aftermarket windshields from? Last summer when my windshield cracked the couple local places I deal with told me they were backordered. I ended up getting a bmw windshield from a junkyard but it's not in great shape. get some glass polish. a cleaned up original looks amazing. we used a little glass polish on my pops e39 and you couldn't tell there was a windshield at all lol. i wanna re-do it this year.