QUESTION ID: 2678

QUESTION:
Locally, here in Portland (and it seems in Boise and several other cities) Greyhound is shutting down their terminals in favor of curbside.. I know for me, I have used them multiple times to ship over size seats, body parts..etc because UPS/FedEx over charge and ultimately destroy larger items when I have tried to ship them in the past...

ANSWER 1 (id: 2678_0):
Originally posted by djjerme Locally, here in Portland (and it seems in Boise and several other cities) Greyhound is shutting down their terminals in favor of curbside.. I know for me, I have used them multiple times to ship over size seats, body parts..etc because UPS/FedEx over charge and ultimately destroy larger items when I have tried to ship them in the past... Greyhound will be dead soon anyway.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2678_2):
The rail system in the US is an embarrassment... hopefully one of the foreign countries thats doing it right can come in and bring us some high speed rails

ANSWER 3 (id: 2678_3):
Not a huge loss. Greyhound has been cheaper than UPS one time for me over the last 2-3yrs and I ship hundreds of heavy parts all over the place. If you create a UPS account through PayPal you can get a pretty hefty discount and can make labels without an attached transaction through Paypal while still using the discount. UPS also has a 40% off code on their website (easy) that is available most of the time. If you prefer a regular UPS account, most folks will get cleared for a nice standard discount if you create an account through UPS and reach out to your local account rep and ask for a discount. Not it to mention creating Fedex labels through eBay using old transactions, and the obvious hefty USPS discount through PayPal. UPS/Fedex: always cheaper than USPS for heavy stuff. USPS wins for light stuff (under 5lbs typically) and for first class (under 16oz). The other trick for shipping super heavy stuff is: bikeflights.com They have a special deal with UPS to waive oversized fees on huge, heavy packages.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2678_4):
Problem is I’ve had really bad luck shipping large stuff with FedEx. It’s like they use the large boxes for Forklift Bowling.. And unless you get expedited service, it takes forever to just get from Oregon to Cali - forget across the country, might as well be sending it to the recipients heirs. UPS used to be my go to as well, but jacked the 3 day select rates up a little while back and started getting really slow on ground shipments. Those are some of the reasons I switched to using the bus when possible. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk