QUESTION ID: 546

QUESTION:
Went down to my local Ace Hardware and found these nifty rubbery plugs in their hardware section. For all of 30 cents, you can grab the 7/8" ID plug which fits PERFECTLY in the empty antenna hole. I popped it in while still in the parking lot with a very satisfying snap. This is weather tight as is, doesn't need sealant. Also way better than paying 25x the price for what is currently offered to only have to use a sealant to make it work. If I were a shrewd business man I'd stock up on these suckers and sell them for $5 each and make tens of dollars a week...instead I figured I'd share the information. Ace's website is terrible, but I found the exact same thing on McMaster so you know what to look for in the store. McMaster-Carr http://www.mcmaster.com/#9750k25/=pfua15 McMaster-Carr is the complete source for your plant with over 595,000 products. 98% of products ordered ship from stock and deliver same or next day.

ANSWER 1 (id: 546_10):
Originally posted by jrobie79 any way to retain defrost functionality? perhaps a switch or relay wired? I think this was discussed before, but its probably in a wicked old thread Sure, a relay would work to keep the defrost. I just personally have no need for it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 546_11):
Originally posted by GatoEnFuego I did exactly that, I wired up my rear defroster as an antenna. It works perfectly, no loss of reception. Here in AZ I don't need to worry about the defrost functionality so I removed it. Easy DIY. 1) Unplug BOTH defroster plugs from the glass and I wrapped the connectors in electrical tape just to be safe. 2) Cut antenna coax a few inches from the end of the antenna (in case you need to resplice later for whatever reason) 3) Remove a 1" section of rubber sheath to expose just the shielding ground wires, do this near the rear seat back mounting bolt. Push the ground wires all to one side of the wire (don't cut) and solder those to a spade connector, then bolt that up to the lower rear seat connector bolt for a clean ground. 4) Run the wire up and tuck it between the seat back and the rear door trim. 5) Splice the center core wire to a female spade style connect and slip that onto the driver's side of the rear defroster. 6) Enjoy good reception and no external antenna. Thanks for that. I have to try this.. And the delete plug.. Nice job

ANSWER 3 (id: 546_2):
Originally posted by GatoEnFuego Also way better than paying 25x the price for what is currently offered to only have to use a sealant to make it work. If I were a shrewd business man I'd stock up on these suckers and sell them for $5 each and make tens of dollars a week...instead I figured I'd share the information. Lol, is this directed to me? Making tens of dollars a week? Yeah I wish. After paypal fees, shipping fees, cost of my envelopes, my time, I'm making pennies. If this is not directed towards me, please disregard.

ANSWER 4 (id: 546_4):
That's what she sa........nevermind. So, do you just not use the radio at all, or do you have an antenna hidden somewhere? I have seen people rig up their rear defroster grid and use it as an FM antenna (on non-E30's) and I have always sort of wanted to look into that.

ANSWER 5 (id: 546_5):
Originally posted by jaywood Lol, is this directed to me? Making tens of dollars a week? Yeah I wish. After paypal fees, shipping fees, cost of my envelopes, my time, I'm making pennies. If this is not directed towards me, please disregard. The "tens of dollars a week" was tongue and cheek, thought that was apparent. If you're selling the plugs, that's cool...I wasn't directing my comments to anyone in particular. Just sharing a working solution for a lot less money. ;)

ANSWER 6 (id: 546_6):
Originally posted by NitroRustlerDriver I would still use a little clear silicone if I was you. Just because it "popped" in, doesn't mean it's weather tight. I tried to take it out so I could confirm the size I bought, couldn't even get a thin flat blade screwdriver under the lip. I had to pry it out from the inside and it required a lot more force than I expected. Trust me it's weather tight, but feel free to add silicone if you feel it's necessary.

ANSWER 7 (id: 546_7):
Originally posted by bmwman91 That's what she sa........nevermind. So, do you just not use the radio at all, or do you have an antenna hidden somewhere? I have seen people rig up their rear defroster grid and use it as an FM antenna (on non-E30's) and I have always sort of wanted to look into that. I did exactly that, I wired up my rear defroster as an antenna. It works perfectly, no loss of reception. Here in AZ I don't need to worry about the defrost functionality so I removed it. Easy DIY. 1) Unplug BOTH defroster plugs from the glass and I wrapped the connectors in electrical tape just to be safe. 2) Cut antenna coax a few inches from the end of the antenna (in case you need to resplice later for whatever reason) 3) Remove a 1" section of rubber sheath to expose just the shielding ground wires, do this near the rear seat back mounting bolt. Push the ground wires all to one side of the wire (don't cut) and solder those to a spade connector, then bolt that up to the lower rear seat connector bolt for a clean ground. 4) Run the wire up and tuck it between the seat back and the rear door trim. 5) Splice the center core wire to a female spade style connect and slip that onto the driver's side of the rear defroster. 6) Enjoy good reception and no external antenna.