QUESTION ID: 3085

QUESTION:
Let's say you start with an '87 Vert 5-sp. What would your priorities be if you wanted to restore the car to factory form but with some classy upgrades. This is very subjective, so I'm asking to hear all your opinions. Condition of the car; Pros and Cons Exterior: - Lots of normal wear and tear on the paint (swirls, nicks, light scratches) - No rust - Some dents and dings - Still glossy black shine when cleaned - Stock bumpers/lights/wheels, etc... - Manual top; condition of roof great, no tears or seam splitting - Rear window completely crusted over - Found a black window this morning that has made a home in the driver rear fender lining area......... Interior: - One crack on the dash - Carpet decent - Drivers seat big tear and foam on side bolster rubbed completely down to frame - Normal rear seat fading leather Drivetrain: - Engine runs great; no weird sounds (valve tick) when running - Weird squeal when starting the engine only - Clutch good - Slight hesitation from idle to blip the throttle (not sure if this is normal) - No smoke, no fluid leaks - Transmission seems fine (shifter is getting rebuilt already, lots of slop) - Smells like the cat isnt even there (passed CA emissions in 2014) Suspension: - Complete front end parts replaced 10k miles ago - Bushings, control arms, struts/springs. - It was a $2k job, have receipt - Rides really well, no squeaks or sounds going over harsh roads or bumps - No excessive roll or bounce - It handles like a convertible from the 80's......

ANSWER 1 (id: 3085_1):
If you don't like the early model front valence I'd do the plastic bumper and late model valence swap: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=252047 Maybe $500 if you search for good deals and do the work yourself, maybe a couple hundred more to get it painted. Personally I'd also pick up a set of bilstein and H&R springs for ~$600.; With the remaining $1500 I'd get euro elipsoids and HIDs for ~$500. Using carb cleaner on your ICV might settle your idle, and it's good to do anyways and costs a couple bucks, search for a nice write up on here. For the last $1000 I'd save and wait until something breaks or you find something you really want, if you want to spend it now though a nice set of 16" wheel would like nice especially with the tighter and lower suspension :D

ANSWER 2 (id: 3085_11):
Originally posted by roguetoaster It's a vert with bottlecaps, so I'd donate 3k to the local fire department and have them burn it for me, but only after removing the 5 speed swap. Then I'd make a thread on r3v about how I, a 17 year old, burn cars professionally and ask about which car should be next despite already knowing the answer. Or, you know, I'd fix the squeak in the engine bay and buy a hard top, either way. hahah damn dude!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3085_12):
If the rear subframe and trailing arm bushings haven't been replaced I'd replace those also. Never owned a cabrio so I can't speak from experience but a strut brace and chassis brace may have a big effect on how the suspension feels, probably worth trying that out before going with a stiffer shock/spring. Honestly I think I'd just leave the stock bumpers alone because it's a lot of work swapping to plastics, plus you're left with holes in the trunk from removing that trim piece. The cowcatcher 325is front valence looks great, or there are others made by Zender, Pfeba, Racing Dynamics, etc, that are designed for diving boards but are harder to find. Good luck finding a rear apron. I've been wanting a smooth and quiet m50 swapped face-lift cabrio to cruise in myself, ideally black with a gray interior, including the uber rare matching gray dash.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3085_2):
It's a vert with bottlecaps, so I'd donate 3k to the local fire department and have them burn it for me, but only after removing the 5 speed swap. Then I'd make a thread on r3v about how I, a 17 year old, burn cars professionally and ask about which car should be next despite already knowing the answer. Or, you know, I'd fix the squeak in the engine bay and buy a hard top, either way.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3085_3):
Sell front seats, get a pair of decent Recaros for a few hunnit Smoke test, electrical tune up Get a sssquid chip to remove the hesitation (normal thing for a stock chip) E36 steering rack Look into springs/dampers if you're unhappy with the current ride. I've heard a cross brace helps with cowl shake also. Get Bosch smileys and high output H1 bulbs. I guarantee you don't need more light output than that, and you keep stock wattage. Euro grilles, too. That should be around your total. If not, I'd do the suspension last since the stuff you have is fresh.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3085_5):
I opened this thread and thought it was Christmas. Set goals for car, realise what items need replacing in order to reach goal, spend as little as possible doing items. If you start with the idea of spending 3k, you might spend it all and not achieve your goal.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3085_6):
Have the seats repaired/reupholstered and deep clean the carpets and door panels. Have a pro do some pdr/paint correction - make sure he doesn't do something stupid like drill into the body for pry bar access. Or there's plenty of youtube videos that can show you how to do it all yourself. Fix all mechanical shit. Repaint or replace all the faded black trim, ie grills 15" wheels and tires Performance chip Plastic bumper swap Done

ANSWER 8 (id: 3085_7):
I also have a triple black, bottle-capped, diving board equipped 87 convertible. E30 Wagen's list is exactly what I would do, except I'd keep the diving boards and replace the top and tension straps if the window is totally frosted over. I also relocated the fog lights outboard on my car to line up with the parking lights. It's a much better look IMHO and no longer looks like a 15 year old went to Pep Boys and bought a $30 set of lights to add on the bumper.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3085_8):
I'd buy the supplies to do the body work and paint, replace the bumpers and missing trim, re-upholster the driver's seat, and have the head rebuilt/block o-ringed so it'll stop burning oil and I can turn up the boost. That's all that really needs to be done for me to be satisfied with it.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3085_9):
hahaha, i got a good laugh from some of you, totally what i expected on such a subjective thread. this isnt my first car, nor my first build, however it is my first BMW and i happen to not know anything about the community. I appreciate everyone's input, i actually have more of an understanding of what most of you are prioritizing, very helpful. Keep 'em coming! (especially the troll posts)