QUESTION ID: 2452

QUESTION:
Hi everyone, I am looking for some help or guidance on registering a car that was imported from Germany a few years ago, The car is 87 4 door e30 and I am looking to register in florida, where I live currently. It was purchased in Germany, registered and driven in germany for many years by a family member who was in the military. He shipped the car back after coming back home and on the way home from picking it up at the port the car stopped working. It was towed home and has sat in a garage under a cover for the last few years untouched. So its been in country already although unregistered in the US for a few years now. He forgot the paperwork when he brought me the car so I'm going to have to wait about 2 weeks for them to go back home and receive it in the mail to see what exactly he has. I know he has the german title, I'm pretty sure he has the bill of sale from the German seller and the registration paperwork from Germany. Im assuming he has the shipping and transport documents. What I do not know is what inspection paperwork if any he has or any documentation on when the car arrived at the port. Does anyone have any experience in this area that can maybe shed some light on this for me. The car is very sentimental to me and my family so registering and keeping it in the family is very important to me.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2452_0):
Check the touring section here for a DIY on how to import a touring. It will have info on what documents you will need. Be aware that there is a 99% chance that only the importer will be able to title the car, and you'd need a US title before the importer can transfer it to you. Also, some states will need VIN verification, so if it has moved states it might have to go back to the state where the importer lives (if different from yours). That said, if any piece of the paperwork is missing at this late date you are probably not going to be able to title/register the car, so be prepared as duplicates are not likely going to happen.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2452_1):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Check the touring section here for a DIY on how to import a touring. It will have info on what documents you will need. That said, if any piece of the paperwork is missing at this late date you are probably not going to be able to title/register the car, so be prepared as duplicates are not likely going to happen. Checking the DIY now. I hope he has everything I'm going to be crushed if it cannot be registered.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2452_2):
If all else fails, you can do a Vermont mail in registration. all thats needed to register a car in Vermont is a bill of sale and you don't have to be a resident to register a vehicle there

ANSWER 4 (id: 2452_3):
Originally posted by yngtmr If all else fails, you can do a Vermont mail in registration. all thats needed to register a car in Vermont is a bill of sale and you don't have to be a resident to register a vehicle there Interesting I’ll look into it. From what I’m seeing and understanding I should have all of the proper paperwork and inspection. We are waiting for the holiday mail backup to die down before mailing the paperwork just to be safe so I won’t know for some time. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk