QUESTION ID: 796

QUESTION:
Just wanted to share what I found. It's a video of an engine builder assembling an M20 head. Nice production quality, great lighting etc. I think it's good supplement for someone who is going to do this job, especially if you are a visual learner. :up: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ge-8ww85yS0 NOTE: Some viewers have mentioned a few errors in the build (e.g. missing oil drip pipe) so only use this as a supplement to your other engine building material! :up:

ANSWER 1 (id: 796_1):
Fantastic video, I downloaded the video in 1080p in case it ever disappears off youtube. Two things I would have done differently: Used a thread chaser instead of a tap to clean the threads, and put the oil rubber plugs in the right way.

ANSWER 2 (id: 796_2):
^^ I had to look that up. I've never used a chaser, didn't know that was a thing. Found this good debate... Thread Chaser or Tap ? http://www.practicalmachinist.com/vb/general/thread-chaser-tap-237679/ (Backyard Auto Mechanic) Ok I've read all the data I've found about why you should use Thread Chasers to clean threads instead of just a tap or die. They say the chaser has duller cutting edges (less angle) and is slightly less diameter than the tap and terms like less aggressive than the tap... Your thoughts on this? Good video BTW. Very relaxing. He has all the right tools. I could do without the music, I just want to learn.

ANSWER 3 (id: 796_3):
Originally posted by LateFan ^^ I had to look that up. I've never used a chaser, didn't know that was a thing. Found this good debate... Thread Chaser or Tap ? http://www.practicalmachinist.com/vb/general/thread-chaser-tap-237679/ (Backyard Auto Mechanic) Ok I've read all the data I've found about why you should use Thread Chasers to clean threads instead of just a tap or die. They say the chaser has duller cutting edges (less angle) and is slightly less diameter than the tap and terms like less aggressive than the tap... Your thoughts on this? Good video BTW. Very relaxing. He has all the right tools. I could do without the music, I just want to learn. Taps are very sharp and are primarily used for cutting. As you run down a tap, unless you apply the exact same amount of pressure on all axis's (XYZ) at all times, it will inevitably cut more material. To illustrate this, tap a hole once, and put a bolt in it to see how tight it feels. Then run that same tap down the hole 20 more times and try that bolt again. In really cruded up situations, a tap will cut its way through where you would prefer the current threads to be cold rolled back into shape. Not everyone refers to them as thread chasers, some call them thread restorer. IMO, always use the purpose built tool for the job you are doing, if you're cutting use taps, if you're cleaning use thread chasers.