QUESTION ID: 2203

QUESTION:
Hi guys, I’ll be posting up a Lhd touring for sale soon. It’s currently on bottle top wheels but I could potentially fit a set of fully refurbished Bbs rz (euroweaves) with nogaro grey centres and brand new rainsport 3 tyres. I’m trying to work out what kind of value the wheels will add or whether I’m better off selling separately. any advice would be really appreciated. cheers Tom

ANSWER 1 (id: 2203_0):
Depends on the touring, if modified or swapped euroweaves will probably add value, if stock, and especially if M40 powered the bottle caps will be fine. There is also the question of what came on the car originally, and if yours is one that would appeal to purists. Clearly the weaves will likely be more of an appealing look for advertising purposes, but again, it depends on the style of car you have. Bottom line, in general it's probably a $500 split in sale price between the wheel choices if the tires on both are of similar quality, clearly this means that it's more profitable to sell the wheels separately.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2203_1):
Thanks that’s great. The is a 318 auto and very original, it has A/C, heated mirror and drivers lock, but only keep fit windows. 1 lady owner from new. It’s completely stock, but I did consider lowering it on eibach springs and fitting the Bbs but think I’ll sell separately.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2203_2):
Didn't realize you were from the UK, really can't shed light on the price split your market, in the US we didn't get euroweaves, and were inundated with bottlecaps, so the values are skewed. But I'd bet that the person who buys an M40 powered touring with an auto probably does not especially care about the wheels on the car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2203_5):
Is it imported to the US already? If not I really wouldn't bother right now, touring values have not really climbed on pace with other E30 values, and while the car does have AC, which is somehow seen as a huge deal in the states it really misses with the engine and gearbox. So, it doesn't strike me as one of those preservation cars considering the initial spec. As to the original question, yes, the Euroweaves would be important for that car in the US market since it can be advertised with a recognizable "rare" component. Even if we all know that Euroweaves are not especially rare globally.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2203_6):
No, still here in the U.K. I’ve been keeping an eye on BaT results but haven’t seen an m40 auto go through for a while. If you were to put a figure on the car, what would you suggest? It’s alpine white II, 100k miles, very straight, good paint, immaculate interior with an uncracked dash and excellent headlining, jacking points are solid and no welding is required. I’d also be minded to lower it say 30/40mm and fit the Bbs wheels. I really appreciate your advice.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2203_7):
So, no welding required doesn't really cover the rust since we know that tourings have a couple of extra spots that are super rust prone, so the following is a guess based on most of the UK cars I've seen come to the US. It also assumes that maintenance is probably needed, like most imports. My guess would be 13-17k for that car in the US, and with shipping over 4k USD at last check it's hard to say how sensible it is right now. Also, you will probably get top value out of it as summer approaches. Further, I'd expect that you are losing over 2k for the autobox, white paint, and engine with US tastes.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2203_8):
The tailgate is in great shape, scuttle, rear valance, arches, sills are all rust free. The car will have new discs and pads, together with a service. The most recent shipping quote I have is for $2500 although this does not include the duty fee, (2.5% I think). That’s into Newark. potentially I could fit an m52b28, full black leather, coilovers etc.