QUESTION ID: 3577

QUESTION:
Lets get a thread started that showcases unique and/or rare E30 Mods! I'll start with my one of a kind Gauge Cluster! Like / Follow / Share Insta: JMK_325 :up: Surely R3V has done more unique things! What makes your E30 unique?!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3577_10):
Originally posted by 052JMK Lets get a thread started that showcases unique and/or rare E30 Mods! I'll start with my one of a kind Gauge Cluster! Like / Follow / Share Insta: JMK_325 :up: Surely R3V has done more unique things! What makes your E30 unique?! what if i kind of want the same as yours? how should i go?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3577_11):
Originally posted by 052JMK I'll start with my one of a kind Gauge Cluster! So I get the voltmeter, what are your other digital gauges showing? Oil pressure and oil temp? I bought a voltmeter similar to what you have installed in there (same type of display, size etc) off of amazon for around $12. I also bought a spare cluster frame from a parts yard to dremel around on before I take it to my complete cluster. I'd be interested in adding some more if they have proven to be useful, however! Not a fan of carbon fiber myself but I do like the idea of one gauge face a different color than the others. I've kicked around the idea of trying to get e30dad to design me a tach overlay for my car. Any regrets with your cluster or did it all turn out how you wanted it?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3577_2):
Originally posted by Reichart12 Yassss! First reply should be something as polarizing as these beauts.... So hideous, I love it! I used the rear window kill switch from a sedan to cut power to my vert's antenna. That way I can listen to CDs and Aux without hearing the antenna whistle at highway speeds. I guess that's unique?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3577_5):
I don't know how unique this is but I put a switch next to the button for my hazards that leads to an electric engine fan. Cools much better than the clutch fan and I could control when it's on/off! It's hardly ever on, though.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3577_7):
I haven't seen it on another E30 yet, so Hella H4s in the low beam position while keeping the stock sealed beams in the high position. Works really well, was super easy to install and was far more cost effective than any other upgrade I've seen.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3577_8):
I wired up a genuine Honda parking pole from an early civic to my diving boards. paired with the plate, my wheels, and my rhd swap (and other future plans) I think it looks pretty damn cool:D my favorite thing about it is people always say "oh wow, I didn't know these came as an option" because I used this little guy as the base for it:giggle:

ANSWER 7 (id: 3577_9):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I haven't seen it on another E30 yet, so Hella H4s in the low beam position while keeping the stock sealed beams in the high position. Works really well, was super easy to install and was far more cost effective than any other upgrade I've seen. I did the h4/h1 conversion with black rings and euro grilles. Really cleaned up the front end.