QUESTION ID: 744
TOPIC: tire_wheel_fitment

QUESTION:
Has your a/c switch not been working properly? Have you had to fiddle with it to get it to stay on? Does it cut out while driving? All these were happening to me and i figured I would try and fix it before buying a new switch. This is really simple and I'm sure most of you already know how to do this (there may even be another write up, I didn't look) Here is the culprit: To get to the inside, all you have to do is take a small flat head screwdriver and pop the out cover around the tabs on the side When you take it apart you'll see the two bulbs, springs and a little grey plastic tab between them. The little tab fell out as I was pulling it apart so make sure you don't lose it. You can tell by looking at the connections inside and out that there is a far bit of corrosion. Its 25 years old so that's to be expected. Take the springs off and push the lights through the bottom, this will give you more room to get in there to clean the leads. I used my handy dandy dremel for the job After about 5 minutes of scrubbing away, you can clearly see the difference Put the switych back together and reinstall everything. Now it should work with ease. Before i had to like press it several times to get good contact, not now, works flawlessly with one push Hope this helps some of the broke e30 owners. You can do this to any of the switches they you are having problems with.

ANSWER 1 (id: 744_10):
Bumping an old thread. My AC button doesn't stay pushed on. The AC works, but I have to press the button many times for it to stick. Only one of the photos in the original post works. :(

ANSWER 2 (id: 744_11):
Originally posted by mike.bmw Bumping an old thread. My AC button doesn't stay pushed on. The AC works, but I have to press the button many times for it to stick. Only one of the photos in the original post works. :( Try now. I fixed the photo links Sent from my SM-G920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 744_3):
Originally posted by DisgustipatedAP1 Does this work on the air recirculation button too? I think the springs on mine broke cause it won't stay pushed in. Ya, same switch housing so you kinds do both anyway.

ANSWER 4 (id: 744_4):
If your button won't stay pushed in, then your fix probably won't be this easy. There is a tiny white plastic tab that breaks off, and gets lost. So unless you are a glue ninja, you're looking at a replacement switch.

ANSWER 5 (id: 744_6):
Sweeeet You certainly don't need a new camera either, nice photos. You do need a steady hand, some micro-fine brushes and some white paint to tidy up the markings now!

ANSWER 6 (id: 744_7):
Originally posted by astiv43 If your button won't stay pushed in, then your fix probably won't be this easy. There is a tiny white plastic tab that breaks off, and gets lost. So unless you are a glue ninja, you're looking at a replacement switch. Pick-a-part time!!:D

ANSWER 7 (id: 744_8):
I have a spare switch with perfect white icons that I'm cleaning and selling. Looking for a defrost switch with perfect white icon and a headlight switch knob with perfect white icon if anyone has one they want to sell or trade.