QUESTION ID: 1973

QUESTION:
I am on the fence regarding upgrading the springs & shocks / dampers. My son want to take the H&R / Bils route to lower it and inprove the performance of our otherwise stock 1992 318i and I suspect we will end up selling this in the next 6 months. My question is.. in general does it increase or decrease the cars resale value (targeting Bring-a-Trailer)? Or do certain setups (H&R Super Sport vs. Race, etc)

ANSWER 1 (id: 1973_0):
If the car isn't a collector, people are buying with their eyes. Aka if the car looks cooler lowered, it could evoke more of an emotional response from a potential buyer. Could be the thing that sells them on your car vs another. Pick the springs for how you're using the car. I would steer clear of super sport and race springs, and get a traditional H&R sport spring with a quality damper- I prefer Konis for a street car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1973_1):
If you've got blown out shocks and worn out suspension bushings, refreshing the suspension would probably increase the value. Some people will see a lowered car as modified and assume it was abused, lowering the value. Others may see a job done well and view that as a benefit. If you're going to sell the car in the next 6 months, why even bother replacing the springs? Also, you're never going to recoup the total cost of the parts + labor installing them. Even something special, like a Ground Control setup, will cost more to install than you will get back from the mod when selling.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1973_2):
Swapping the stock springs and shocks with H&Rs/Billy’s will only reduce the potential buyer base for your car. In general, collectors and purists are the folks who’ll pay the most coin for your car and will want it as stock as possible. If a driving enthusiast were to buy it, they’d most likely rip off your mods (or the stock parts) and toss on whatever mods fit them. Those kinds of folks are also generally stingier when it comes to looking for a car to buy Don’t know how old your kid is, but if he’s under 25 I wouldn’t go with his recommendations on suspension mods if I was you. If he wants to throw Super Sport/Race springs and Bilsteins on it, it’s not going to be a comfortable ride for those times you want it to be a comfortable ride. Given that you’re looking to sell the car in 6 months, best to leave it as is. The money spent on springs/shocks would be better spent on detailing the car in preparation for the sale

ANSWER 4 (id: 1973_6):
Originally posted by gazellebeigem3 I think dude is asking what mods are equivalent to house flipper grey. Just flip the car and move on, business titan. It took 5 replies to get here, honestly I thought it would be sooner.