QUESTION ID: 3547

QUESTION:
I know the 325i was introduced in 1984 in general ,but I have seen the introduction to the US being 1987.The 14" basket weave wheel was introduced with the "I" model ?,if this is correct my question is would I be able to locate a set of basket weave wheels with a production date of ' 86 stamped on the wheel itself?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3547_0):
Although I don't know when the 14" basket weave went in to production. But, I don't see why you would not be able to find a set, as parts production was almost always ahead of introduction on the car by some months. I really don't see the point of course, as the car was spec'd with what ever it had from factory, and if they were baskets then you would be fine to find a set. Otherwise finding one for concourse judging is odd and would cost you points.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3547_1):
I was mostly curious.I found a set of baskets about two weeks ago I was not really searching for them and they were local.My car is a mid 86 ES and has most all of the IS features as standard.The original bottle caps that came with the car are all dated 86,the car also has the original unused spare in the trunk.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3547_10):
Originally posted by 1843lamp That is interesting ,most of the ES cars I have seen have black mirrors as standard.My ES is a one owner car that is unmodified with the exception of a few accessories that were dealer installed at the time of initial purchase .The mirrors are both body color ,alpine. His car is schwarz, so he's being cheeky. Although, trim paint black and schwarz paint are different. Black 325iS still had black painted mirrors...not the basic trim paint black.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3547_12):
Originally posted by Streichholzschächtelchen true my 87 is has painted mirrors and is black. wish they painted the db shrouds. I'm with you there. They only did that on the convertibles for some reason so I copied them. Makes a big difference.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3547_2):
The 87 325iS was the first model to receive basketweaves in the US. The cars are similar because they both have the "S" sport package. The iS however, also had body colored mirrors and basketweaves. The eS did not.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3547_3):
My car came from the dealer with body color mirrors ,BBS Mtech style side skirts,and a special leather sports seat arm rest and special cassette holder console ,that is why I thought if I found a set of weaves someday I might get them to complete the car.Also came with sun roof deflector.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3547_7):
I reread my original post ,I may have given the impression that I was looking for a set of baskets,I am satisfied with the baskets even though I think the baskets look nicer.i was just curious to know if the weave wheels were produced before 1986-87, so I said if I was to locate a set ...,I should probably have not said that,just if I did try to answer this question myself ,would I be able to locate a wheel with an early date on it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3547_8):
Originally posted by reelizmpro The 87 325iS was the first model to receive basketweaves in the US. The cars are similar because they both have the "S" sport package. The iS however, also had body colored mirrors and basketweaves. The eS did not. My schwarz ES did have color matched mirrors. :p

ANSWER 9 (id: 3547_9):
That is interesting ,most of the ES cars I have seen have black mirrors as standard.My ES is a one owner car that is unmodified with the exception of a few accessories that were dealer installed at the time of initial purchase .The mirrors are both body color ,alpine.