QUESTION ID: 2390

QUESTION:
FYI, IE looks like they've closed shop online for now. I ordered some stuff over a week ago and didn't receive any correspondance from them when my order didn't update with shipping/delay info by the week's end. Site has since gone into maintenance mode. Still haven't heard from them, they must be slammed? I figured something was out of the ordinary before the weekend, IE usually rocks the boat! Hope all is well over there. Now I'm debating canceling my order and just reusing old parts since I need the car on the ground asap. Anyone else have any more info. I'm going to try to be patient and continue to give them the benefit of the doubt, hoping something comes through by end of this week. Curious on what the actual delay will be for parts? Like another week? or more? Any info helps. Cheers fellas.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2390_0):
They talked about this on Instagram a few weeks ago. They basically said they were thinking about shutting down new orders in order to catch up to all of the current orders. I would just try emailing them or reach out to them on social media.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2390_1):
I have an order in with them. I had a store credit and they emailed me today to update my order with the credit taken off the total for my order. Hopefully it ships out soon.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2390_10):
Originally posted by nando Dang. I mean, they've had their problems in the past (long, long ago!), but were basically a cornerstone for E30/2002 parts. I hope the new owners are able to continue - although overpriced, the loss of BavAuto a couple years back was already hard to swallow. Soon we'll only be left with ECS Tuning and similar "Vampire Squid Private Equity" backed companies. I haven't talked to Blunt in years, which was another community oriented parts option - but I also haven't needed to buy as many parts as in the past.. Blunt is still alive and well. I order stuff from them as often as I can.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2390_11):
Originally posted by kronus I think Condor ate a lot of IE's lunch, as far as overly stiff bushings for race bois go. Not a delrin fan, but not a not an Apple Crumble bushing fan either... Everyone sells junk, but I'm surprised IE is still around. It seems like every other order has an issue from them. Tough business. Cool to see Vink Motorsports carrying their bars, or buying from same manufacture.. I was going to write in maybe closing down orders for a week to catch up probably would help them out and should have tried that years ago.... Even pre Covid it was hard to get good help though... I think Andrew there maybe acquiring it?

ANSWER 5 (id: 2390_13):
Originally posted by e30austin no love lost, here. every single IE part i have ever installed (along with many others), was absolutely, completely, trash. When I was rebuilding my M20, I ordered valve stem seals from IE since they are somewhat local. When I got them, they were 3 different colors and different sizes. Some were obviously for a different engine. I couldn't believe it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2390_4):
They were sold earlier this year. That's how I ended up with a store credit as opposed to a refund of the bad rocker shafts I got from them. I ordered them before the business changed hands so they said they couldn't process them as a refund. That was the story I got at least.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2390_5):
Dang. I mean, they've had their problems in the past (long, long ago!), but were basically a cornerstone for E30/2002 parts. I hope the new owners are able to continue - although overpriced, the loss of BavAuto a couple years back was already hard to swallow. Soon we'll only be left with ECS Tuning and similar "Vampire Squid Private Equity" backed companies. I haven't talked to Blunt in years, which was another community oriented parts option - but I also haven't needed to buy as many parts as in the past..

ANSWER 8 (id: 2390_8):
Originally posted by nando Dang. I mean, they've had their problems in the past (long, long ago!), but were basically a cornerstone for E30/2002 parts. I hope the new owners are able to continue - although overpriced, the loss of BavAuto a couple years back was already hard to swallow. Soon we'll only be left with ECS Tuning and similar "Vampire Squid Private Equity" backed companies. I haven't talked to Blunt in years, which was another community oriented parts option - but I also haven't needed to buy as many parts as in the past.. bav auto is dearly missed. Did the website sell/business change hands? Can't believe I waited this long to start fixing my car up, woulda been nice to funnel some of my funds into the e30 community directly.