QUESTION ID: 3023

QUESTION:
WHAT: The 2017 Drive4Corners BMW meet is back with a fresh new look for the new year. The organization team is proud to announce a new venue nestled outside Durango, CO at Purgatory Resort this year. Join us for the largest BMW meet in the Rocky Mountain Region! Complete with Alpine slide, mini golf, mountain biking, and hiking, there is no shortage of attractions to experience and no shortage of mountain roads to explore. Join one of the caravans to this driving destination and make sure to stay for the group photo, drive, and BBQ on Saturday night. Dependng what you bring and where you come from, there are awards for furthest travelled, oldest BMW, and fan favorite. WHEN: Friday, August 25-Sunday August 27, 2017 HOW DO I SIGN UP? Click here. Early bird registration is now open and prices will be going up, so get in early! Website Drive 4 Corners – Desire to Be Driven https://www.drive4corners.com Take a look at the 2016 event video to get a taste of what Drive 4 Corners is all about! I'm planning to bring my 325ix Turbo, who else is coming??

ANSWER 1 (id: 3023_0):
We just had another planning meeting and are trying to decide on the freebies included in the registration. We discussed hats, coffee mugs and a few other options, anybody else have any input?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3023_1):
What is Drive 4 Corners, you ask? it is an annual informal gathering of BMW enthusiasts focused on a road-trip adventure in the Rocky Mountains. It gets you out of the heat of the summer to a scenic mountain destination. D4C aims to connects BMW enthusiasts from across the nation and provide a friendly event and weekend getaway, no matter what BMW they drive. For more info, visit this page. Date: Friday, August 25-27, 2017 Location: Purgatory Resort - Durango, CO 81301 CLICK HERE TO REGISTER For the 7th annual gathering, D4C will take place at Purgatory Resort in north Durango, CO. This resort operates a ski destination in the winter as well as a summer getaway destination in the summer. This location was selected with hopes to improve the lodging and accommodations for all D4C participants as well as providing access to scenic mountain roads in the near vicinity. The ascent to Purgatory is an excellent two lane road, perfect for D4C caravans as they approach their final destination. US 550 north through the historic town of Silverton up to Ouray, CO is known as the Million Dollar Highway and is a unique road worth driving. It is a two lane road dubbed the San Juan Skyway and Scenic Byway with multiple 10,000ft passes. This route will serve as our Saturday extended drive with a lunch stop in Ouray, CO to explore the unique shops and restaurants the town has to offer. The Drive 4 Corners team is very excited for this change as it will bring a new element to the event as a whole. Reserving this venue means that event registration price has increased to $80 per vehicle (early bird pricing), however we have struck a deal with the hotel with reduced lodging costs to offset the increase. Another great part about the change in venue means that the lodging and accommodations are much broader. The property includes individual hotel style rooms at a great rate, as well as group style suites that promote more of a community atmosphere. To see all of the information about the resort and lodging rates, please visit this link. Some photos from D4C 2016: As always, the D4C team will organize a fun filled weekend focused around the BMW’s we love to drive, and all of the great friends we have made in the process of owning these machines. Come on out for 2017 and enjoy this ‘driving-destination’ weekend and make some new friends! We can’t wait to see what new great people and unique BMW’s arrive for 2017 and we hope you choose to join us this August! Go directly to Registration!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3023_2):
This is always a fun and well organized event (been there three times myself). I lead the AZ caravan one year, and we had a great time just getting to the event. A supercharged E39 M5 and my S52 racecar were duking it out! If anyone is on the fence about going, I recommend taking the weekend to experience it. If I have a BMW this year that is trip worthy I'll be heading out as well.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3023_4):
Dang, the timing is JUST wrong for me :( I'm getting married September 16th, and THEN we're going to Colorado for our honeymoon. Is this an annual event, or are there a few throughout the year? I'd love to go to the next one!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3023_7):
Originally posted by Matt-B Standard Registration: $100 per vehicle this is crazy... people complain that e30 picnic is 12$ Have you ever looked up the cost for BMWCCA Oktoberfest? BMW CCA O'Fast – Presented by Continental Tire http://ofest.bmwcca.org/ofest-schedule Get ready to immerse yourself in the ultimate BMW enthusiast experience at O’Fast, the BMW Car Club of America’s premier annual celebration. registration did go up due to the new venue. Do you get a custom event t-shirt, meal, and custom event swag at the picnic? But then again this isn't just a bunch of cars driving to a grass field and parking there for the day.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3023_9):
Plus it's pretty well known that E30 owners are cheap in general. A lot of teenagers and twenty somethings own them and use them because they could be found for $2000 or less. Not as much nowadays but spares are still cheap and easy to find. This isn't a car show and isn't meant for people who want to show off their cars. It's for people that want a weekend driving adventure. Plan on a $500 weekend (or more) when you add up lodging, food, event registration and gas. Almost everybody is travelling 250+ miles to the gathering.