QUESTION ID: 218

QUESTION:
Long story short i blew a tire and totaled my E30 late 2020. Found a chassis and moved all useable parts from my 87 to an 84 body (dont recommend, get a more similar year as its not a simple swap over) I replaced anything aside from major components that were 6+ years old. Took about a year to rear both cars down to straight metal and get the new one running. The car has been my daily now for about a year and ive been on email support with Fortune auto here and there throughout that time. specs 84' body - 87' build 215/40/17 Front - Falken RT615 235/40/17 Rear - Falken RT660 (look to have stiff sidewalls) H&amp;R Swaybars (set soft) Rear Poly subframe mounts 75a Rubber everything else When I ordered directly from Fortune auto they asked me my setup. I told them daily/sport basically. They suggested the default rate of 8k/10k which I found odd since id think thats a bit high but this is my first time going coilover. When received I was unable to get a decent ride height, im talking a 4 inch gap between tire and fender for the rear. I drove on it and it all felt kinda crappy, stiff, my old setup was same tires but stock sport struts and h&r super sport springs, felt GREAT. So with this I gave it all the benefit of the doubt and let things break it but I told them the rear is high and it rides rough in the rear too so we agreed on 8k, so 8k/8k now which we also agree isn't ideal. With the sprints considerably shorter and swift now, its a bit better but not completely, height wise perfect. A side from ride quality being disappointing even on the softest settings I recently blew thru my rear right shock tower and broke the top hat in half, 3 weeks later I get a replacement now I notice hairline crack in the rear left side (this was there 3 weeks ago also), I take it out to install a temp reinforcement plate and the top hat is also broken on the left side. After talking to fortune auto via email, they are very responsive but not helpful at all. Also at highway speeds when pavement changes decently I'll hop out of my seat on the bump. Just seems very drastic to me and the damage to my tower screams something is going on. Im going to try and call FA Monday to see if I can speak to anyone more knowledgeable. Any help is much appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 218_0):
Spoke to FA today and they have no idea what could be going wrong, which causes me to think am I expecting more out of the ride quality but some details here dont add up with suspension thats set up proper like the excessive bouncing and damaged top hats and strut tower. I just sent in an order in today for KW V3's as I am giving up ultimately on FA, I'll try and sort the issue out as much as possible so I can sell this set.

ANSWER 2 (id: 218_1):
I sent an email to Fortune last year hoping to have an intelligent discussion on coilovers specifically tailored for ride comfort (in my E36). They replied that the default spring rates should be suitable for that use. No discussion of appropriate valving was offered. I never bothered to reply after getting an answer like that. I ended up installing a set of H&R Sport springs which was an improvement over the previous owner's cut spring setup. Will be replacing front spring pads and top hats in the future to hopefully get some more height (and suspension travel). If/when my E30 gets coilovers some years in the future, I'm going straight to something like Öhlins / Moton.

ANSWER 3 (id: 218_10):
Originally posted by Garrick2007 Right! So yes I have it set so it’s compressed 1/8th of an inch, the spring is 6” so after preload it’s 5 7/8”. Was this at full droop?

ANSWER 4 (id: 218_11):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK I didn't realize the 6" springs you were talking about were for the rear, there is no way you'll ever get low with those. Usually you want 5" for softer rates or 4" if they're stiff. Especially on an early model with higher arches. Top mount damage is completely on Fortune, there is no reason their mounts should be breaking the way you have it setup. All preload does is limit suspension droop and make the springs slightly stiffer. If you have too much preload in the rear, you run the risk of lifting an inside wheel in corners. This is too little too late at this point, and you're probably (understandably) completely against Fortune auto products now, but Broadway Static suspension uses ​Fortune Auto products, and they are experts in older BMW's. I've ran products from them on a couple different cars on street and track, and have nothing but good things to say about them. They might even be able to help you out with warranty through Fortune. Thanks a lot for that comment on early vs late models, I know your talking about diving board vs facelift but this is something I’ve been looking into for 84 vs 87 chassis, are you aware of there being any mounting difference discrepancies between an 84 body vs 87? KW has the same part number no matter the car so that tells me it should be the same.

ANSWER 5 (id: 218_13):
Originally posted by Mike36 Was this at full droop? Yes performed at fool droop, I followed their guide https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bKkipKqSu3o&t=3s honestly ive watched just about every video I could find to ensure I was doing it correct. The front doesnt ride exactly how id like, a bit stiff but im not having actual issues with the front like I am with the rear. Im out of options and as of today im told "It’s highly unlikely there is anything incorrect on your rear shock setup" A ridiculous reply.

ANSWER 6 (id: 218_2):
8k and 10k are very similar to what H&R race spring rates are, so stiff but not unlivable for a lot of people. It sounds like your rear shocks are too long. Is the shock length adjustable on the fortune auto's? Rear shock towers rarely break on e30's unless you are bottoming out the shocks or you have true coilovers. Some pictures of your setup would help with the diagnosis.

ANSWER 7 (id: 218_3):
Originally posted by Panici I sent an email to Fortune last year hoping to have an intelligent discussion on coilovers specifically tailored for ride comfort (in my E36). They replied that the default spring rates should be suitable for that use. No discussion of appropriate valving was offered. I never bothered to reply after getting an answer like that. I ended up installing a set of H&R Sport springs which was an improvement over the previous owner's cut spring setup. Will be replacing front spring pads and top hats in the future to hopefully get some more height (and suspension travel). If/when my E30 gets coilovers some years in the future, I'm going straight to something like Öhlins / Moton. Very funny, they seem clueless. They told me to email the guy ive been emailing as he's "most qualified" and to let him know I called, and him + the manager would do their best to figure it out. Sounds like a dead end. Ive literally sent over 15 email replies to him specifically. When I asked why a spring of that length was sent to me and I was unable to get any type of decent fitment (I asked this question to hint at possibly something else is wrong with this order, maybe its for another car" This was there reply. "In regards to the rear spring situation, this is quite easy to explain. For the spring rate chosen (10kg) we have a 6-inch spring and a 7-inch spring for our FA springs. We do not have anything shorter, so when situations like yours come up and you want lower, we then send an upgradable spring choice (Swift or Hyperco) at no cost, as this is a case-by-case situation with E30 year/models" That answer is very weird to me, I don't see why they would send a a 7" spring if the 6" fits perfectly for low and stock heights. I guess ill ask how can I check if this rear setup is for an E30. Also I came from running h&r supersport springs and honestly I wish I just stuck with that. Ride height was just about perfect and ride quality I felt didnt go down from stock which was great. We'll see how KW goes, also I didnt know Öhlins offered for the E30? Originally posted by E30SPDFRK 8k and 10k are very similar to what H&R race spring rates are, so stiff but not unlivable for a lot of people. It sounds like your rear shocks are too long. Is the shock length adjustable on the fortune auto's? Rear shock towers rarely break on e30's unless you are bottoming out the shocks or you have true coilovers. Some pictures of your setup would help with the diagnosis. ​The shock does look fairly long in the photo, I could compare it to an old stock shock, I'll question them on this as well, photos are below! Ive recent raised it from how the photo is just to see if it would ride any better, not at all. You can see how the left rear is cracking and the right rear blew through twice, I currently have 2 temp reinforcement plates holding the right down, im waiting on my guy to become available but ill probably find someone else as he's really busy. At this point im seeking doing a return or seeing what can be worked out, they've suggested I could sell it but honestly wouldn't feel comfortable doing so. ​

ANSWER 8 (id: 218_4):
Originally posted by Garrick2007 Also I came from running h&r supersport springs and honestly I wish I just stuck with that. Ride height was just about perfect and ride quality I felt didnt go down from stock which was great. We'll see how KW goes, also I didnt know Öhlins offered for the E30? While not an official OEM kit, there is custom stuff out there. Just have to be ready to open the wallet (which is why these plans are a LONG way off for me). 🤑 404 Not Found https://3dmmotorsport.com/products/bmw-3-series-e30-ohlins-ttx-motorsport-suspension-kit 3DM Suspension I am playing with the idea of true rear coilovers, but there would be significant compromises to trunk space for the reinforcement required to run them. Probably also overkill for a street car, although having high-speed and low-speed bump adjustment would be gravy. Need to speak to some suspension experts first to help me decide. https://motonsuspensionusa.com/products/moton-suspension-motorsport-3-way-coilovers-1985-1991-bmw-3-series-e30-coupeconvertiblesaloonestate-c-325i-true-coilover

ANSWER 9 (id: 218_5):
I can't fully tell from the photos, but since the rear shock is length-adjustable, you want to adjust the length to where the spring is just barely unloaded at full droop. From photo Groups (twisted red reinforcement), is the shock mount itself broken? It looks like the stud is still bolted in place but the shaft is way off to the side.

ANSWER 10 (id: 218_6):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK I can't fully tell from the photos, but since the rear shock is length-adjustable, you want to adjust the length to where the spring is just barely unloaded at full droop. From photo Groups (twisted red reinforcement), is the shock mount itself broken? It looks like the stud is still bolted in place but the shaft is way off to the side. Right! So yes I have it set so it’s compressed 1/8th of an inch, the spring is 6” so after preload it’s 5 7/8”. I feel like I’ve done everything correct. And yes the top mount broke on both sides but the right side was the only one that had tower damage. one has been replaced, the other I’m waiting on another mount from them. This setup seems screwed and I at this point and I’m going to be seeking as much back from them as I can. Would you say me requesting shorter springs for my car’s desired ride height is uncommon? I feel as if my car should have been able to be dialed in to that ride height without a “custom ordered spring” as I’m not running it that low at all, it’s not a stanced build.

ANSWER 11 (id: 218_7):
Originally posted by Panici While not an official OEM kit, there is custom stuff out there. Just have to be ready to open the wallet (which is why these plans are a LONG way off for me). 🤑 404 Not Found https://3dmmotorsport.com/products/bmw-3-series-e30-ohlins-ttx-motorsport-suspension-kit 3DM Suspension I am playing with the idea of true rear coilovers, but there would be significant compromises to trunk space for the reinforcement required to run them. Probably also overkill for a street car, although having high-speed and low-speed bump adjustment would be gravy. Need to speak to some suspension experts first to help me decide. https://motonsuspensionusa.com/produ...-true-coilover ahh okay I see, that’s very cool and yes I see, very expensive haha but id love to experience a setup like that. Definitely going to read up on what it takes just out of curiosity

ANSWER 12 (id: 218_8):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK I can't fully tell from the photos, but since the rear shock is length-adjustable, you want to adjust the length to where the spring is just barely unloaded at full droop. From photo Groups (twisted red reinforcement), is the shock mount itself broken? It looks like the stud is still bolted in place but the shaft is way off to the side. Interesting, I always thought the rear spring should be slightly preloaded like the fronts.

ANSWER 13 (id: 218_9):
Originally posted by Garrick2007 Right! So yes I have it set so it’s compressed 1/8th of an inch, the spring is 6” so after preload it’s 5 7/8”. I feel like I’ve done everything correct. And yes the top mount broke on both sides but the right side was the only one that had tower damage. one has been replaced, the other I’m waiting on another mount from them. This setup seems screwed and I at this point and I’m going to be seeking as much back from them as I can. Would you say me requesting shorter springs for my car’s desired ride height is uncommon? I feel as if my car should have been able to be dialed in to that ride height without a “custom ordered spring” as I’m not running it that low at all, it’s not a stanced build. I didn't realize the 6" springs you were talking about were for the rear, there is no way you'll ever get low with those. Usually you want 5" for softer rates or 4" if they're stiff. Especially on an early model with higher arches. Top mount damage is completely on Fortune, there is no reason their mounts should be breaking the way you have it setup. Originally posted by Mike36 Interesting, I always thought the rear spring should be slightly preloaded like the fronts. All preload does is limit suspension droop and make the springs slightly stiffer. If you have too much preload in the rear, you run the risk of lifting an inside wheel in corners. This is too little too late at this point, and you're probably (understandably) completely against Fortune auto products now, but Broadway Static suspension uses ​Fortune Auto products, and they are experts in older BMW's. I've ran products from them on a couple different cars on street and track, and have nothing but good things to say about them. They might even be able to help you out with warranty through Fortune.