QUESTION ID: 2546

QUESTION:
So I was searching the interwebs for a cheap roof rack since the other one that someone found on here had been discontinued. I came across this $45 rack on ebay and went for it. Although I've never had a name brand rack to compare it to, the roof rack is surprisingly nice quality for the price. I took some pictures too.:D Here is the link http://www.ebay.com/itm/ws/eBayISAPI...ht_1736wt_1189 It came apart and was easily asembled in around 10 mins

ANSWER 1 (id: 2546_2):
Originally posted by ZekeTheSneak Looks good, no locks though right? You can clearly see there is none in the pictures. @OP I just bought a Yakima e30 rack from a member on here. Cost about triple but we will see how it works out for my plans. This is still an AMAZING deal for our cars, and it clearly fits like a glove. How does it feel side to side and does it flex if you put any weight on it? Whole point is for putting shit on it. Give a review!

ANSWER 2 (id: 2546_3):
Originally posted by F34R How does it feel side to side and does it flex if you put any weight on it? Whole point is for putting shit on it. Give a review! The sticker on it said it's rated up to 50kg. I might get a basket for it or some bike mounts so I'll update once I get some real weight on it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2546_4):
Originally posted by CW325 The sticker on it said it's rated up to 50kg. I might get a basket for it or some bike mounts so I'll update once I get some real weight on it. Good looks =) This is an amazing design for people that want to make wooden racks. Not to mention in the price range for fucking cheap ass e30 owners.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2546_6):
Originally posted by Chaz Any uses for a rack other than the obvious snowboard, ski, bike, suitcase? I have thought about buying a Thule just to have one. If you put wooden planks from the front to the back you can haul tons of things. I am planning to move to FL in the fall so mine will be packed up =) That is the whole point of them, that is my reason for asking OP how sturdy his feels. Only thing I would do for the OP's rack. Is remove the feet clamp tighteners and use a bolt and nut to make sure it does not loosen up from driving. The feet design looks to me like stamped steel. Guessing steel because it is cheaper than aluminum.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2546_7):
Originally posted by F34R If you put wooden planks from the front to the back you can haul tons of things. I am planning to move to FL in the fall so mine will be packed up =) That is the whole point of them, that is my reason for asking OP how sturdy his feels. Only thing I would do for the OP's rack. Is remove the feet clamp tighteners and use a bolt and nut to make sure it does not loosen up from driving. I was thinking about the wood plank idea :D I'll definitely consider the nut/bolt setup too.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2546_9):
Originally posted by CW325 I was thinking about the wood plank idea :D I'll definitely consider the nut/bolt setup too. Replace the metal cross beams with wood too, I am sure the aluminum would collapse from that many holes drilled in it. Or get steel square tubing if you wanna stick with metal braces. I am personally going to build my rack from Teak(strongest wood known to man). Also Teak is water proof by itself alone from the resin in it(contains oils in the wood). Give you an idea of the grain and amazing color, going with a linseed oil finish. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_nBVI3n2gcOw/S_nZ-2kr6TI/AAAAAAAAAnE/mTtFERyKBlY/s1600/woodgrains.jpg