QUESTION ID: 2335

QUESTION:
So I always planned on putting the 325is badge back on after the repaint. We are in the final stages of the car being finished and I saw it without the badge the other day. It looks so clean. Now I am torn for a few reasons. One it looks good without the badge, two the car isn’t technically a 325 anymore with the S54 in it. I also have an Mtech badge the set for the front grill and the rear trunk, I was not planning on using the rear one but that is an option as well. Thoughts? Car for visual Rear MTech 2 Badge

ANSWER 1 (id: 2335_10):
yeah, easy choice. put the 325is back on. :p I'm never making my car completely stock again, of course, but some of the stock stuff is just for the best. I got sick of the shitty fitting aftermarket e-brake boot I had for years and years, and put it all back to stock, and it's so much better. And I might have finally found the same stereo that came with my car originally in good shape, and I've been looking for months.. haven't had a stereo of any kind in the E30 since 2010, lol. Oh, and the poll on my stock wheels, good lord.. it wasn't even close. I still can't believe my luck on finding those.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2335_11):
Originally posted by nando yeah, easy choice. put the 325is back on. :p I'm never making my car completely stock again, of course, but some of the stock stuff is just for the best. I got sick of the shitty fitting aftermarket e-brake boot I had for years and years, and put it all back to stock, and it's so much better. And I might have finally found the same stereo that came with my car originally in good shape, and I've been looking for months.. haven't had a stereo of any kind in the E30 since 2010, lol. Oh, and the poll on my stock wheels, good lord.. it wasn't even close. I still can't believe my luck on finding those. I hear you, I had a non stock ebrake and I hated it, once I went to the stock M3 leather one it was so much better. I had multi different versions of stereo's before I went with a stock one and BT board, I love both the look and the functionality. I have slowly changed anything I could to OE, (due to the swap some of that is not possible) but the interior is pretty much stock as possible, and changing things like the headlights from DEPO to Hella make a huge difference.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2335_2):
I'd put it back on because it is part of the car to me. The clean look is nice, but something is missing. (Mine is also still badged 320i while it's technically been a 328i for 6 years now)

ANSWER 4 (id: 2335_3):
Voted stock 325is. Back in the day we all looked at the badges and knew what the car was. Obviously yours will be a big time sleeper with that dang sweet engine. That’s where I am coming from but I do recognize that I am a 50 year old and the people you want to “catch by surprise” are a lot younger and maybe more suspicious of such a sweet and thorough restoration in this day. Do what you want. on edit, there aren’t more than 5 people per day that you drive that car 100 miles that know what “MTechnic” is.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2335_4):
Originally posted by 325e '87 Voted stock 325is. Back in the day we all looked at the badges and knew what the car was. Obviously yours will be a big time sleeper with that dang sweet engine. That’s where I am coming from but I do recognize that I am a 50 year old and the people you want to “catch by surprise” are a lot younger and maybe more suspicious of such a sweet and thorough restoration in this day. Do what you want. on edit, there aren’t more than 5 people per day that you drive that car 100 miles that know what “MTechnic” is. I hear you although with the power in some cars these days I don't know if I would surprise too many people lol. My 7 will take the E30 off the line, especially with the traction limitation, but its nowhere near as fun! I am still leaning toward the 325is badge back on but man it looks nice clean.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2335_5):
I have a policy- I don't debadge my cars on purpose, but when the badge comes off for whatever reason, I never put it back on. Because like you, I'm in for clean. And if you're not sayin', maybe you have an M40 in there and need the lightness for extra speed. t

ANSWER 7 (id: 2335_6):
I had my ix badge deleted for years. But honestly, it's not like you're hiding something - the E30 isn't really a sleeper. I ended up putting it back and I definitely like it better that way.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2335_7):
Originally posted by nando I had my ix badge deleted for years. But honestly, it's not like you're hiding something - the E30 isn't really a sleeper. I ended up putting it back and I definitely like it better that way. I dont care about hiding anything, The engine wont match the badge anyway. This is a close poll, but I think I will put it back on I can always take it off later if I feel like it, butI probably wont. Found out my paint guy bought all brand new badges out of his pocket (and a new gas filler gasket) because he didnt want to put the old ones on a completely redone car. That helped make the decision.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2335_8):
I removed the 325iS badge from Linda years ago for cleanliness and I feel like there is something missing every time I look at the back of the car. I was parked next to another 325iS at a meet a few weeks back with trunk badge present, and it looked “complete” with the badge. I think on your car, though, the Mtech badge may do the trick. I don’t like it badgeless, though. For some unmerited, inexplicable reason, badgeless gives me Japanese car vibes. Now that I have typed badge so many times, it looks quite odd. badge

ANSWER 10 (id: 2335_9):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I removed the 325iS badge from Linda years ago for cleanliness and I feel like there is something missing every time I look at the back of the car. I was parked next to another 325iS at a meet a few weeks back with trunk badge present, and it looked “complete” with the badge. I think on your car, though, the Mtech badge may do the trick. I don’t like it badgeless, though. For some unmerited, inexplicable reason, badgeless gives me Japanese car vibes. Now that I have typed badge so many times, it looks quite odd. badge Badge!