QUESTION ID: 1145

QUESTION:
Hello board, I was trying to find a thread that I saw once on s14.net (many years ago) about an upgraded bracket (redisigned) and special bushings (not sure if poly or derlin) but seems I can't find that thread. Problem is that my alternator is not facing stright with the belt and I already broke my "new" bracket arm in half (I did weld it to fix momentary) in less than 5k kms on the clock with all new including bushes, clips, nuts/bolts bracket, etc from OE BMW parts. As we know the s14 vibration is high and therefore it likes to loose bolts and then start breaking parts with time or abuse so I would like to know if someone knows and good upgraded alternative for brackets and bushes to aid this problem? Thanks! PS: Asking here since s14.net is unable to post a thread for some internal problem.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1145_1):
There are upgrades but they are expensive and more race car oriented. If you want to keep the bracket from breaking, make sure the alt bushings are bosch white or new rubber (i had no prob with poly) and that there isn't too much tension on the belt. Welding more meat along the back of the bracket will keep it from splitting as well.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1145_4):
I believe that the white bushings are NLA. I have been using the black bushings and have not had a problem. They may need replacing more often but they are still available. Cheers, Jim

ANSWER 3 (id: 1145_5):
I contacted Pelican and they seem to not have them in stock anymore, however a sales representative told me he could still source them for about $13,50 a piece

ANSWER 4 (id: 1145_6):
Update. I ended up machining locally my own bushes. I will report later once is installed and some miles on them. It's way stiffer than the crap OEM rubber that was shot after 4k miles on it, but it does flex a bit which means is not nylon plastic which is rigid. -Diego

ANSWER 5 (id: 1145_8):
I had the same problem you had. What I found out was I installed the locking clip on the wrong side. This prematurely destroyed the new bushings... Not sure How to put these in words, but the part of the alternator that connects to the adjustment rod should stick out a little longer than the mounting side. To achieve this, I believe the locking clip should be installed on the same side as the adjustment rod. Hope this helps.