QUESTION ID: 3003

QUESTION:
I've owned it since '92. Lost interest in it. Does not run. Needs new engine. Head has a crack by #4 spark plug and wets the plug. Does not cross with oil though. It smoked when it ran, probably needs rings. It does have a Dr.Schrick cam in it. I have the original cam and block that goes with the car. It was originally a 2.0, 6 cylinder. Right now it has a 2.3, 6 cylinder. It has eibach springs, I do have the original springs also. The car has no exhaust, starting from the head all the way back. I do have the original exhaust manifolds. All those extra parts go with the car. It's been in non-op since December of 2002. The color is bronzit beige metallic. I want to sell it, what's it worth? Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 3003_0):
Looks like it also needs a rear plastic window.. not sure if those are as expensive to fix on baur as on a regular vert. Depending on the interior I'd say $1500-$2500 maybe $3k if the paint looks great and is original.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3003_1):
go to baurspotting.com and look at what these cars are going for. If there is an enthusiast market for these cars, its on that website. Given that it's a 323i if you get the car running again and clean it up I would say this car in nice clean condition should bring you approx. $7,000+ if you market it right. Especially if it is low mileage and you have paperwork/records. From the looks of it the body and paint are very good condition. All depends on mechanicals though. Bring it to a good shop and have them take a look at it so you know what your getting yourself into.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3003_12):
you people need to stop hiding your plates, the bogeyman isnt going to get you if the internet sees it. i just dont get why people seem to think they need to hide their plate

ANSWER 4 (id: 3003_2):
Nice car. So you're saying it's a 320i with a 323i engine? Does it have a BAR label? I think Baur's are worth a premium to the right buyer. However, given the state it's in mechanically, needing a new engine/exhaust and being non op for 15 years...it's going to need a lot of work. I agree with Julien, only because it's a euro Baur that looks pretty clean. I will have an M20B23 available soon if interested in getting it running.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3003_4):
it would help to know what the interior was like. if it has leather sport seats in good shape that would be a plus. most people generally consider bronzit beige to be a negative selling point. baur's are a very polarizing car. there is a good portion of the community that think they are ugly. however, there is also a portion that like them as much as others dislike them. the car looks like a good restoration candidate. generally people won't want to pay you anything for a car with a bad engine though. only knowing the limited info you have provided, i agree with the 2-3k assessment above.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3003_5):
Originally posted by flyboyx it would help to know what the interior was like. if it has leather sport seats in good shape that would be a plus. They're grey/beige cloth comforts. You can see in the 2nd pic

ANSWER 7 (id: 3003_6):
Originally posted by iXguido They're grey/beige cloth comforts. You can see in the 2nd pic You can sort of see the tops but not the areas that wear or the rest of the interior. To evaluate something it helps to see most of it.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3003_7):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Nice car. So you're saying it's a 320i with a 323i engine? Does it have a BAR label? I think Baur's are worth a premium to the right buyer. However, given the state it's in mechanically, needing a new engine/exhaust and being non op for 15 years...it's going to need a lot of work. I agree with Julien, only because it's a euro Baur that looks pretty clean. I will have an M20B23 available soon if interested in getting it running. Yes, it has a BAR label. Yes, it's a 320i with a 6 cylinder. Right now it has a 323i block with crank and pistons.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3003_8):
Originally posted by parkerbink You can sort of see the tops but not the areas that wear or the rest of the interior. To evaluate something it helps to see most of it. I get that, I was just making a point that they are cloth comfort seats. I didn't say anything about the condition.