QUESTION ID: 1581

QUESTION:
Hey guys, I have an IX block that has new bearings and rings and wanted to see if anybody was interested in it. It's been hot tanked and taken apart and gone over at the local machine shop. I bought this motor not knowing it was and IX for my eta to i conversion, didn't know until I tried to put my oil pump in. It didn't come with a pan or pump and I didn't notice the lack of an oil pressure relief valve hole. So I've sourced an i short block and will put the rebuilt head on it. I live in Birmingham AL but could ship. Shoot me offers! I was trying to figure out why it had no port LOL!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1581_1):
The original ones. I told them to replace anything worn out or out of spec. He said everything looked good and recommended rings and bearings. Sent from my SM-G920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1581_11):
I have about a million other projects right now. The Syncro is kicking my ass so..., yeah, I'm interested, but I'd sit on it for at least a year. Maybe more. And then sell it when I get mad at how many unfinished projects are laying around, in all honesty. So.. I got like $200.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1581_3):
He's been building motors for years, can't imagine why he would have passed up a chance to make more money if it needed it. Sent from my SM-G920V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1581_4):
Originally posted by The Dark Side of Will If he honed the cylinders and put the original pistons back in, the bore clearance is most likely out of spec. nah. Honing isn't the same as boring. it's just giving the new rings a surface to seat on. and I haven't ever seen an M20 block with significant bore wear, even after hundreds thousand of miles...

ANSWER 5 (id: 1581_5):
agreed with nando. I've reinstalled used pistons after dingle-ball honing bores and it was fine. The recommended procedure is like 5 passes at medium speed, just for ring seating.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1581_6):
Originally posted by nando nah. Honing isn't the same as boring. it's just giving the new rings a surface to seat on. and I haven't ever seen an M20 block with significant bore wear, even after hundreds thousand of miles... From everything I've read and learned by speaking with mechanics and engine builders over the years this is true.. But I did have an M20 where the bores were out of round at one time. Unfortunately the rebuilt motor blew up (actually 2 of them!) due to a bad rebuilt AFM causing the car to run lean - not good on a new motor! Lesson learned? Install a wide band to make sure your car is running right while letting new rings wear in...

ANSWER 7 (id: 1581_8):
Originally posted by nando nah. Honing isn't the same as boring. it's just giving the new rings a surface to seat on. and I haven't ever seen an M20 block with significant bore wear, even after hundreds thousand of miles... A "new surface" means removal of material. If the bore clearance to a cast piston is 0.002", and the bores are honed 0.002" bigger, which is very reasonable for a touch up hone, especially if there is *ANY* out-of-round, PTB clearance is now 0.004" and out of spec. Yes, a used block will have out-of-round because of the way iron "seasons" and stabilizes through heat cycling. Of course, the fun part is that nothing in the documentation says what was done to it. I'm assuming that since the work was done by an actual shop, the block went on an actual honing machine and had taper and out-of-round fixed. 5 passes with a dingleberry is just going to result in a messy hone AND messy bore dimensions. Is the assembly fine for a DD? Most likely. Wide PTB clearance can have an impact on emissions as the engine will burn more oil than it would otherwise. If the buyer needs to have the car emissions tested, he should understand what's in the block. Let's just be clear about what it is.