QUESTION ID: 2382

QUESTION:
Now that I've click baited you into thinking we are closing down (we are not..) I have a few updates. It's obvious the vBulletin 5.X migration has caused a large number of problems. Performance is horrid, we have constant database issues, searching fails and locks the cache event table which crashes the forum, and we are running into random login issues occasionally. vBulletin support is worthless, and while they have one good resource over there (Wayne Luke), it seems as if he is the only employee handling support and thus can only ask questions and not jump into determining why we are having the issues we are having. So, with that being said, after looking at options and speaking with other vendors we are moving at a large expense over to the Invision Community Platform. This will be a slow migration and we are currently testing how well our 22GB Database is going to migrate into the Invision Platform. I will keep members posted via this thread on our status and once a beta site is available for testing. Few things to keep in mind 1) it's going to look and operate a little differently, honestly, deal with it, and adapt to change. If you are providing feedback on why a button you used to have is now on the other side of the screen I cannot help you with that. R3V is supported by other business ventures of mine, we don't have ads, we don't charge membership, and I don't plan on changing that, so keep that in mind when you complain for the sake of complaining 2) We will be on vBulletin until I am content all the CONTENT and USERS are migrated over properly. R3V is a database/wealth of knowledge that is my primary concern, followed by ensuring existing users can log in without issue 3) I vetted several vendors and decided on Invision due to the support teams they have, in fact, it was 6 times the cost of other platforms and frankly didn't offer much more than say XenForo, but I don't have time to spend hours upon hour digging through logs trying to figure out why a button does not work when I can toss in a ticket and have them point to the problem. More to come, bare with us, we are doing what we can

ANSWER 1 (id: 2382_0):
Not trying to complain, However since we migrated over for what ever reason I cannot login using google chrome it does nothing but send me back to login screen. I've tried on all 3 of my computers and at work with the computers there to no avail. Any insight on what I can do to fix this from my end or is this a Vbulletin issue? Thanks for keeping the forum alive and kicking.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2382_1):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Not trying to complain, However since we migrated over for what ever reason I cannot login using google chrome it does nothing but send me back to login screen. I've tried on all 3 of my computers and at work with the computers there to no avail. Any insight on what I can do to fix this from my end or is this a Vbulletin issue? Thanks for keeping the forum alive and kicking. I had the same issue a while back. If I direct link to a sub forum, it shows logged in, which has been my course of action for a while now. Thanks for keeping R3V alive, James!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2382_2):
Originally posted by AWDBOB I had the same issue a while back. If I direct link to a sub forum, it shows logged in, which has been my course of action for a while now. Thanks for keeping R3V alive, James! That's interesting it worked for me. Thank you

ANSWER 4 (id: 2382_5):
That's what the other two boards I frequent use, good choice IMO. Originally posted by roguetoaster Outstanding! What other places use Invision so we might check it out? Classic Zcar Club https://www.classiczcars.com/forums/ cars for veterans, jdm imports usa, vintage car shop, classic car insurance, classic car pictures, datsun car models, oldtimer cars, classic car company, vintage model cars for sale, old car from cars, classic car news, classic car trader online, best site to sell classic cars, datsun car, historic cars, classic car collection, classic, z, datsun, 240z, 260z, 280z, zcar, zed, s30, classiczcars.com, 240z.org, fairlady, 240, 260, 280, nissan, 240 z, 260 z, 280 z, zx, turbo, classic z, 280z cars, cars 240z, car forums, datsun, nissan, cars datsun, car club, 280zx, car, nissan zcar, classic z car,performance,300zx, car years, car raced, texas 350z, 300z, 350z, nissan racing , clubs car, zcca, club datsun, datsun 240z, datsun 260z, datsun 280z, nissan 280zx, nissan 300zx, datsun roadster, datsun fairlady

ANSWER 5 (id: 2382_6):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 Not trying to complain, However since we migrated over for what ever reason I cannot login using google chrome it does nothing but send me back to login screen. I've tried on all 3 of my computers and at work with the computers there to no avail. Any insight on what I can do to fix this from my end or is this a Vbulletin issue? Thanks for keeping the forum alive and kicking. Will be solved with the new platform. Google Chrome acts odd for me on vbulletin forums occasionally. I've had good luck with Firefox and oddly enough Edge Chromium

ANSWER 6 (id: 2382_7):
Awesome! I know my r3v browsing took a major crash because it is so frustrating waiting 3-5 seconds for any action to take place. The Samba is getting boring, I want to get back here more often.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2382_9):
as a very new member, but lurker for years, this forum has provided with the knowledge to satisfactorily find, examine, and purchase an E30 with confidence, as well as ensure it remains road-ready as my DD. thanks for your effort and looking forward to the future!