QUESTION ID: 1976

QUESTION:
I really hate threads like this but im curious as this customer experience has really left a sour taste in my mouth. Couple of weeks ago I ordered a set of M20 VAC motorsports rocker locks from VAC, ordered off their website. Had no idea what the freight would be and that I would be sent a paypal invoice including freight as I am an international customer - thats ok I received an invoice for the freight to Australia - $168usd ($250aud) - for something this small and lucky to weigh 500g. To give you an idea I got 6x rods from Virginia sent to me for $130usd via USPS that obviously cube larger and weigh more. ​VAC were insistent to use UPS and UPS only, I requested due to the size of the product and I was in absolute no rush if it could be shipped via USPS instead to make it a bit more economical? I was shut down on three occasions stating "unfortunately we're not setup to use USPS for shipping" and that $168usd was the cheapest option. I tried arguing this further and even pointed out there was a post shop half a mile down the road.. still fell on the same "unfortunately" response. I tried reaching out to the owner as I felt the customer service was falling short on a staff member... received no reply. So in the end I had to do it, took 1.5 weeks to get (average time frame, DHL is faster usually), packed in a box twice the size of the item with zero information regarding to clearances/product fitment on a product THEY DESIGNED. So leads to my question.. is USPS just a post shop? Can you just go down there and send a parcel internationally without too much fuss? Its a shame really because this means for me to purchase anything from VAC Motorsports in the future the minimum cost is $168 freight. That is crazy! I have purchased A LOT of things overseas, never seen a freight bill like that.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1976_0):
Sorry to hear about your experience. If it makes you feel any better, I've been hosed more times then I can count by shipping/customs/taxes here in Canada. What I ended up doing was using a small mail-forwarding service company (with a pick up option). Ship to their US address (often free shipping within the USA). Then I am able to drive across the border and just pay a 13% tax as I cross. Takes a couple hours each time, but savings can be significant. In your case, you could use the re-shipping/mail-forwarding service and have them send via cheapest option to Aus. Some places will repackage or bundle multiple items together if you ask.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1976_1):
The most difficult thing about USPS is waiting in line at the post office. They have flat rate boxes and envelopes so "if it fits, it ships". It's also a government agency, so shipping costs are generally much lower than a business (UPS, FedEx, DHL...) That being said, most companies will set up an account so they can package and print labels without going to the store. I can understand VAC not wanting to take time to go to the post office, but they aren't THAT big of a company and you'd think they'd do it once an order hits a certain price point.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1976_10):
I'm not defending any of these companies, I'm just telling it like it is. They all suck in their own ways, and everyone is going to have their favorite and most hated shipping companies based on their own experiences.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1976_11):
Originally posted by Digitalwave So they are either pocketing the extra money, or they are too dumb or lazy to capitalize on the discounted rates the UPS would offer them. I'm fairly certain a few of the aftermarket companies many get E30 parts from are over charging for shipping and handling and pocketing the extra as a way to undercut item cost vs the competition. This came to my attention recently and I made a post about it when I received a shipping quote from that was way higher than the quote I requested after receiving the box, measuring and weighing it. This used to be a huge problem on ebay, but I don't see it as much these days. With international, who knows. That was a pain in my ass when I got my E34's wheels from England.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1976_12):
Wow thankyou for the input guys, has definitely reinforced what I thought, freight forwarding is def a good idea although Ive never used such a service so wasnt sure how reliable it was. Il give that a crack next time altho after VAC now ghosting me over recommendations requested for clearances on their product Il be steering clear of that mob for anything further. Heres hoping they arent made of butter and wear out after 1k miles

ANSWER 6 (id: 1976_13):
Originally posted by bangn Wow thankyou for the input guys, has definitely reinforced what I thought, freight forwarding is def a good idea although Ive never used such a service so wasnt sure how reliable it was. Il give that a crack next time altho after VAC now ghosting me over recommendations requested for clearances on their product Il be steering clear of that mob for anything further. Heres hoping they arent made of butter and wear out after 1k miles you'd have to fly to the states to pick your order up for a freight forward service ... maybe not the cheapest option lol freight forward is just a mailbox service in the sates you pick your package up from to take over the border yourself.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1976_2):
USPS international services are wholly unreliable, I am sure VAC doesn't want to assume that responsibility for high priced items like that. That said, if they do *any* volume with UPS, their rates should be far better than that, at least by 50%, if not more. So they are either pocketing the extra money, or they are too dumb or lazy to capitalize on the discounted rates the UPS would offer them.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1976_3):
i'm also in canada and have never had issues getting parts through usps. not only is it reliable, in many cases it arrives faster than a delivery service, and it is always the cheapest option hands down. ups is a predatory company. they undercut the cost of other delivery options to the vendors, for the ability to hose their customers on the other end. ups uses an in-house broker for any international deliveries and charge massive brokerage fees that are avoided by companies using a third party broker. the ups brokerage makes more money for the company than delivering goods does. ups is useless for international rates. they also have a habit of holding your goods hostage, or non-delivery until you pay their extortion. i've had deliveries with charges they wanted worth 300% more than the part, and would not deliver unless paid. as a result i have often canceled orders, or simply went elsewhere if ups is the only delivery option. it is always cheaper in the end to go with another vendor charging more for a part if they do not use ups.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1976_4):
I suspect the problem with buying goods in the US to be shipped internationally is that our businesses and USPS expect that we are more than happy to pay a premium which they can pocket simply because something ships from the US. For instance, I was able to get an entire set of Euro bumpers shipped from AUS to the US for just over $100. When I quoted it from a US IP address for the exact same item and dates it was approaching $700. There can be absolutely no justification for this whatsoever. As to USPS shipping services for businesses, there is a cost to get that spun up and maintained which a company may not want to mess with.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1976_5):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I suspect the problem with buying goods in the US to be shipped internationally is that our businesses and USPS expect that we are more than happy to pay a premium which they can pocket simply because something ships from the US. For instance, I was able to get an entire set of Euro bumpers shipped from AUS to the US for just over $100. When I quoted it from a US IP address for the exact same item and dates it was approaching $700. There can be absolutely no justification for this whatsoever. As to USPS shipping services for businesses, there is a cost to get that spun up and maintained which a company may not want to mess with. shipping in to a US destination is very much different when it comes to delivery options and cost. it is easier and cheaper for you. i think a lot of it simply has to do with the volume of traffic.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1976_6):
Originally posted by 82eye i'm also in canada and have never had issues getting parts through usps. not only is it reliable, in many cases it arrives faster than a delivery service, and it is always the cheapest option hands down. ups is a predatory company. they undercut the cost of other delivery options to the vendors, for the ability to hose their customers on the other end. ups uses an in-house broker for any international deliveries and charge massive brokerage fees that are avoided by companies using a third party broker. the ups brokerage makes more money for the company than delivering goods does. ups is useless for international rates. they also have a habit of holding your goods hostage, or non-delivery until you pay their extortion. i've had deliveries with charges they wanted worth 300% more than the part, and would not deliver unless paid. as a result i have often canceled orders, or simply went elsewhere if ups is the only delivery option. it is always cheaper in the end to go with another vendor charging more for a part if they do not use ups. UPS and FedEx clear packages way faster than USPS at the border, and yes their brokerage fees are higher than USPS or DHL, but this should only equate to a few dollars in the end. However, they do not set the tariff rates for what you are being billed on importation taxes and that component of the bill should not be any higher than other couriers. This depends greatly on what the shipper stated the value at, and if they selected the correct HS code for the item(s).

ANSWER 12 (id: 1976_7):
Originally posted by Digitalwave UPS and FedEx clear packages way faster than USPS at the border, and yes their brokerage fees are higher than USPS or DHL, but this should only equate to a few dollars in the end. However, they do not set the tariff rates for what you are being billed on importation taxes and that component of the bill should not be any higher than other couriers. This depends greatly on what the shipper stated the value at, and if they selected the correct HS code for the item(s). all i can tell you for sure is every time i've used ups it's been a nightmare of expense compared to other services, usps, dhl, and fedex included. so much so i've learned just to avoid them like the plague. in order of added expense at the door it from highest to least would be ups, fedex, dhl, usps. with ups well in front. i've had goods delivered with a higher value by the other three listed with no extra charges at all many times. not always. but if there are added charges it is reasonable. edit : i just got a fedex delivery with $100 charge at the door for a steering rack and a couple other things. i didn't find that exorbitant at all for the price of the goods and tariffs. just as an example.

ANSWER 13 (id: 1976_8):
Originally posted by Digitalwave UPS and FedEx clear packages way faster than USPS at the border, and yes their brokerage fees are higher than USPS or DHL, but this should only equate to a few dollars in the end. I have been burned many times on brokerage fees from DHL, UPS, and FedEx. The taxes/duties are typically similar yes, but only the couriers tack on huge brokerage fees. USPS has always been the least expensive option shipping USA->Canada for me. Couriers do clear items faster through customs, but for those of us close-ish to the border, nothing is faster then shipping within the US (typically within a day or two) and picking up the item yourself across the border.

ANSWER 14 (id: 1976_9):
Originally posted by Panici for those of us close-ish to the border, nothing is faster then shipping within the US (typically within a day or two) and picking up the item yourself across the border. i would murder for that option lol