QUESTION ID: 3621

QUESTION:
Anyone catch this video yet? I still like Kameron's clip better

ANSWER 1 (id: 3621_1):
Originally posted by flyboyx thank you for sharing. is that the same guy that reviewed cameron's red car? Same guy, his name is Matt Farah. You could find him in the past on Super Speeders, currently on Drive, also on The Smoking Tire, and maybe even a few more places.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3621_11):
I loved the video too... started looking at prices of S54's lol. I'm surprised he went with the ZF 5spd AND had a 3.73 LSD... super high gearing for that me thinks. A 3.46 is about as high as I'd want to go with a ZF 5spd. Great video nonetheless!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3621_3):
for those of you that don't, you should watch more of Farah's "one takes". all the cars he drives are user-submitted which is badass. they're all normal guys with normal cars. "[about not being able to heel toe properly] no its not about me being hot, its about me not fitting because I'm fat and your seats are bolted to the floor, David"

ANSWER 4 (id: 3621_5):
I don't know about you all but I was pumped as hell after watching that. I've watched nearly all of his One Takes and this is the first time I can remember Matt offering to buy the car. It's super cool when someone who's driven 100's if not 1000's of nice cars compliments the hell out of your preferred platform and basic mods setup.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3621_6):
Originally posted by Luke_M I don't know about you all but I was pumped as hell after watching that. I've watched nearly all of his One Takes and this is the first time I can remember Matt offering to buy the car. It's super cool when someone who's driven 100's if not 1000's of nice cars compliments the hell out of your preferred platform and basic mods setup. hahhah dude exactly. I commented on youtube "I've never seen Matt smile more than in this video". I especially liked the video because I've actually met that guy David and have caravan'd with him before here in LA. very cool guy/car.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3621_7):
Nice. Is there a build thread or mod list that you know of? Originally posted by J.Rizo hahhah dude exactly. I commented on youtube "I've never seen Matt smile more than in this video". I especially liked the video because I've actually met that guy David and have caravan'd with him before here in LA. very cool guy/car.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3621_8):
This made me excited to finish my S54 swap soon especially coming from an S52 which I had thoroughly enjoyed. Is the extra 1.2k rpm worth it? It's not too much more torque...etc. The projects keep piling on, like R134 conversion, brake conversion...I started this all just for an engine conversion which I already had before.... It's not a hard swap, just alot to do!