QUESTION ID: 2723

QUESTION:
I've been working with a very resourceful and talented partner to get a new product to market which we're hoping many of you would appreciate enough to buy: BMW Motorsport - not BMW M - roundels. For those of you with short attention spans, we're talking about a pair of these: These are E30 and E28 specific kits with the correct front and rear roundel geometry, though the front roundel will work on any BMW Motorsport vehicle ever made from the M1 to the cars currently in the showrooms. This is the BMW Motorsport roundel which was used in the early days of BMW Motorsport in the era of the E9 CSL, E26 M1 and the E30 M3. The colours used are the original BMW Motorsport GmbH colours from back when they were still partnered with Castrol and the middle stripe was purple to symbolize that partnership. BMW Motorsport GmbH was renamed to BMW M GmbH in 1993, and the middle colour was changed to a dark navy blue. The thin borders around the colour segments and the BMW text itself will be chrome. Perhaps most importantly, unlike earlier vinyl sticker or enameled metal offerings, these will be produced in injection moulded plastic to better than original equipment quality, will have a dimensionally perfect logo, perfect colour reproduction, and will not deteriorate like past efforts have. All for under $100 U.S. for a set! ;D Your feedback through the poll at the top of this thread is greatly appreciated. :)

ANSWER 1 (id: 2723_10):
I've seen these kind of replicas on everything BUT the cars they were intended for including later model E36's, etc. I think they are too retro, even for the M3 but to each his own. I think it's cool that you are bringing these to market though.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2723_11):
I'd have to see pics of the actual product before I'd consider buying a set. The surround would definitely have to be chrome metallic, not the gray in the mock up.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2723_2):
Originally posted by gart Hope it happens. I gave up looking for these a long time ago. Believe me, this isn't a pipe dream. Production is already lined up, and in the United States at that! :D

ANSWER 4 (id: 2723_3):
Originally posted by Shock(/\)ave Believe me, this isn't a pipe dream. Production is already lined up, and in the United States at that! :D I don't see you having a problem moving these. I'd probably be in for two sets if I could make it work on the e39 wagon. I'll have to compare them tomorrow. I'm going with the motorsports theme in the bays of both cars so it would tie it all together nicely.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2723_7):
I voted not interested. Not because I think they are a bad idea, I just think they will look good only in particular situations. It's like with the CF Roundal's and other custom stuff, it will look cool in the right use. Unfortunately, I forsee a lot of people just slapping them on their car and say "check out my customization, yo!" It's a double edged sword for you, if you are putting the money in to production, you want to get a decent return and sell a lot (I'm not against that), but if everyone and their brother starts rocking them, then they could get played out. Obviously, you can't control or probably don't care how people use it, but food for thought. Didn't see if you mentioned if this was going to be a limited run. If you only ran a small batch at a time (maybe 50 or 100 every other year.) That would probably help over saturation... ...Or just get dat $$$ :devil:

ANSWER 6 (id: 2723_9):
Originally posted by Appleseason Would you also be making steering wheel inserts? Will there be anything else, or is it just the 2 badges? At the moment we're keeping it limited to the main roundels. These have never been made correctly, whereas there are good options for steering wheels still available if you know where to look. Originally posted by 2mAn I'm pretty sure Guten had these also but doesn't anymore. I've been wanting a set for a while Those were actually a cloisonné enameled metal, and while beautiful, they suffered from catastrophically bad durability when mounted on a car. That's why they're no longer on the market. Originally posted by djjerme I voted not interested. Not because I think they are a bad idea, I just think they will look good only in particular situations. These are primarily intended for BMW Motorsport produced cars from 1972 through 1993. The production run will be limited by design, but the custom tooling required for the injectiom mold alone was several thousand dollars, and the intent is to keep the group buy cost comparable to factory parts with even better quality. If we were just targeting the upper end of the market they would be produced with molded in colour at the $175 - $200 per set cost level. I didn't want to make them that inaccessible. Originally posted by Powling You already know I'm in for them! Love the idea of the steering wheel roundel mentioned above too. I'll keep you updated. :) Thanks for the feedback so far everyone. ;)