QUESTION ID: 2006

QUESTION:
Just so mad that I need to share my idiotic move yesterday. On a Volvo 5 cyl twin cam, you install a cam locking tool at the back of the cams to keep everything from rotating while you take off the 88 ft-lb cam wheel bolts at the VVT front end of the engine. All guides say to bolt it in really tight. Well, I sheared off a bolt deep INSIDE the camshaft. Didn't think to question the quality of this tool and that maybe I should have bought hardened bolts. Now I'm stuck. Pull the top of the head and hope to get an easy out in there....??

ANSWER 1 (id: 2006_0):
^ Its hard to advice without a picture. Generally, never use a easy out, that too will break too and you'll be in an even worse position. Depending where/how it broke your options: 1. weld a nut on to the stub 2. Left handed drill bit (quality bit from fastenal) Any threads you mess up can be time-serted.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2006_1):
Here is the situation..... This is the back of a Volvo head. I bought this car used recently with 125,000 mi and it's dirty. The front cam seals are leaking very badly. It has dual VVT. The upper motor mount, both cam position sensors, their covers, and the tone rings have been removed here. This is the exhaust cam - the bolt end is inside that hole. Nothing to grab. This is the tool. The teeth lock into the slots in the backs of the cams to hold them while you mark your VVT travel. 18-19mm of bolt is missing. I'm curious about the markings on the bolt that didn't shear - was it starting to spin? Is it bottoming in the hole? Is the bolt too short and those are the only threads engaged? If only two or three threads, how was there enough torque to shear it off? This is a guide recommended by Volvo guys - says right in there, make these bolts tight, the VVT cam bolts are on with 88 ft-lbs. CVVT Hub Setting Guide - Rev2.pdf This recommended video, by a Volvo specialty shop, clearly shows the guy snugging them up pretty tight with two hands. I used one hand on a 3/8 ratchet and it turned and snapped. Just watch from 2:00 to 2:38. https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=2&v=o4uLvH151-c I was mostly ranting because I feel so stupid, but if you all have some ideas, I'm all ears. The top half of the head separates and holds the cams - there are no bearing caps. No gasket, it's a roll-on sealant layer between. I assume you have to start over with cam timing and VVT set-up if you take it apart. This was a relatively easy seal replacement job.........ugh.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2006_10):
Originally posted by LateFan ^^ thanks. Any others? Irwin? I think I have a Fastenal shop here. Looks like one bit is $20 - $30. No, I cant stress enough, don't skimp on a bit, if it breaks on you, you'll be in a situation where now you are drilling hardened steel. Ask them for a norseman bit, they usually have a display case with individual sizes at the front desk. Should be under $10, probably closer to $5-6. If you get to the point of needing to thread, look here for your options for serts: http://rtstools.com/repairing-damage...epair-inserts/ Another option you have, is to buy/make a hollow bolt, thread it in until it hits the broken part then weld inside the hollowed part; taking care to start welding at the bottom of the hole.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2006_11):
I like a good challenge. Third option I just thought up: Get a reverse threaded tap, and tap the broken off piece. Tighten new bolt into old to remove.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2006_4):
WOW..... Depends on 1 thing, is the bolt thats left in the cam bottomed out or not. If not, then you stand a good chance of getting it out with a left hand drill, or at worst an easy out since the head is snapped off there should not be any pressure on the threads and should turn back out easily if you can get a bite on it. A very small yet powerful magnet on a rod might even do it if you can make something. If its bottomed out in the hole and there for pressure on the threads you might still be able to get it with an easy out..... Though be careful to not snap your drill or easy out off these assume your not cross threaded, which I doubt you are I would bet you get it this way hopefully with the left hand drill right off the bat, with the cam still installed in the head Vs the other option below. If thats not going to get it, your going to have to pull the cam and do some fancy clamping and securing in your drill press ( I assume you dont have access to a lathe) and progressively drill out the offending bolt stub until you can chase the last bits out with the correct tap, and restore the threads. Or take it to a machine shop and have them do it.. or just getting a new cam might be cheaper and easier edit : the non sheared bolt looks like it hit the end of the threads in the hole, does that mean bottomed out???? likely

ANSWER 6 (id: 2006_5):
Something has flattened the last two rows of threads. The rest of it looks unmarked, like it wasn't even engaged. Could these bolts be way too short? So is there any way a hand-held drill could align with the shaft and not totally chew the threads of the cam? Does a reverse bit just drill a hole, or does it grab the bolt end (low speed I assume) and back it out?

ANSWER 7 (id: 2006_7):
Well when you went to install them did they "thread in" or were they out of space in the tool it self as you attempted to install it?? that will tell you how much thread engagement there was Looks to me like you ran out of thread, not necessarily out of hole with out looking down the end it hard to say which of the 3 situations is whats going on here..

ANSWER 8 (id: 2006_8):
I had to deal with a snapped subframe bolt yesterday on a buddy's e30 I was doing a oil pan gasket on. Imagine a snapped subframe bolt stuck inside your cars frame, not a nice situation. First tried left handed drill bits, which failed but drilled a hole all the way through the fastener, next tried an easy out which also failed. Then bumped the drill size up/ easy out again which also failed. In the end, the drill bit size I used for the 3rd time was so large you should have been able to, at least in most situations, use a pick to remove the old fastener threads/ shavings. In my case I had to use a tap to re thread the hole. Not fun, that sub frame bolt was seriously corroded in there. I don't really have any suggestions, but I wish you the best of luck sir. Broken fasteners are never fun.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2006_9):
^^ thanks. Originally posted by noid 2. Left handed drill bit (quality bit from fastenal) Any others? Irwin? I think I have a Fastenal shop here. Looks like one bit is $20 - $30.