QUESTION ID: 2162

QUESTION:
So I was a 20 year old kid working at a factory making car parts. Coming in at 3:30 a.m. and working 12 hours a day, 6 days a week. I fell asleep at the wheel 3 minutes from my house and smashed my Cirrusblau 325e into a ditch. I really, really loved that car. I put so much time and money into it, had it repainted. Even put a brand new OEM full exhaust on it, cat and all...just so it would run quiet like new. Most of those parts are toast now (not the exhaust). I went back recently to the place where I left the car. Its been sitting for years now where I left it. I should have fixed it then or done something with it but I didn't. The interior has molded. Someone got into the car and left one of the doors not quite closed all the way so moisture has gotten into the interior. Mice have made nests, chewed up the back seat. The car has the Luxus package, so the back seat has head rests and a center arm rest. Over the years I have gotten to be a pretty good shade tree mechanic, and I can do most anything to this car that it needs...except bodywork. I'm torn on whether to fix this car or not. I know it will be expensive but memories, man. I had so much fun in this car, and Cirrusblau on Pearlbeige is really nice when it's looking fresh. What do you say? Here are some pictures. She's pretty rough but I think a pressure washer and a good interior clean would go a long way. I figure about 4-5k in body work. Sent from my SM-G998U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 2162_0):
An automatic Eta rotting in the woods? Sorry but I'm gonna vote no way. If you're emotionally attached to it, then maybe pull that nice 3-spoke steering wheel and the engine, find a clean blue donor body, and build a proper 327i. You can even recondition that wheel nicely and put that in, as a nice reminder of the old donor car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2162_11):
I agree with others; sitting on wet ground for 17 years will trap so much moisture underneath the chassis, and all the bolts and chassis seams are probably rusted like crazy. Not to mention the cowl underneath all those leaves. Check those first before proceeding. You don't want to be dumping a ton of money into a rusty shell, even if it has emotional connections. If the rust isn't bad, go for it. You'll be doing all the other things these cars need anyways, and it will probably cost you the same as if you bought one in similar shape that has been driving. Edit: if that was here in socal, it would be on craigslist for 5k

ANSWER 3 (id: 2162_2):
my new rule is: not messing around with a car that's been off the road more than 3-5 years. they just need too much to get going again after that. add a ruined interior, possibly seized engine, front end damage... it isn't exactly helping your cause. sorry, but i think that's a parts car at that point. kinda crazy you've held onto it that long, though.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2162_3):
Just part it out. You would be putting at least $30k (rough guess) into this one just to make it nice. Not really worth bringing her back to her former glory unless you can piss $30k

ANSWER 5 (id: 2162_4):
If it has been sitting that low to the ground the bottom is also likely rotted. Jack it up high enough to check for rot. That might make the decision pretty easy. Also, have you confirmed that the engine turns over?

ANSWER 6 (id: 2162_5):
Id pull the carpet and look on the under side for a rust check If your OK with that then make an analysis of the front end damage. Most old cars need everything anyways..

ANSWER 7 (id: 2162_9):
Yeah bud unless this car means that much to you, or if you feel that it needs to be saved, just salvage what you can. Buy you another good one and start over.