QUESTION ID: 2621

QUESTION:
I know many of you are not fans of the new BMWs I like some dislike others but dont hate them. I am probably in the minority but I actually like this i4 Concept. This video is interesting, you can love it or hate it but they have a lot of 325is goodness in here (even if its bronzit :) )

ANSWER 1 (id: 2621_0):
Hmmmm I dunno... The kidneys are flat out disgusting on the new cars... and thats an EV so they arent even needed. I will wait and see what the final product is

ANSWER 2 (id: 2621_2):
Someone has to come up with a name for a this degenerative process in styling, taking a characteristic of something and exaggerating it over iterations until it's the only defining feature. In TV/movie fan circles people call it flanderization. The obnoxiously oversized kidney grilles are the flanderization of BMW's styling. Photoshop those giant abominations off of it and you have [generic aggressively styled and bloated looking modern car].

ANSWER 3 (id: 2621_3):
I like the idea of the i4 & the shape overall is fine (was hoping for something to take on the model 3). Like others, I can't stomach the front - maybe there's an opportunity for AC Schitzer or one of the other aftermarket tuners to come out with a different front bar for the i4 and new 4 series with a smaller grille. They made some great looking fronts in the past, but in recent years not so great. Time to redeem themselves :)

ANSWER 4 (id: 2621_4):
So the lesson is that both old and new bmw owners are graffiti artists. Pretty arty farty video, 300odd miles is a long way though. but then they appear to be in the middle of knowwhere in the video, yet with 95% charge, maybe they live out there...

ANSWER 5 (id: 2621_6):
Originally posted by e30davie So the lesson is that both old and new bmw owners are graffiti artists. Pretty arty farty video, 300odd miles is a long way though. but then they appear to be in the middle of knowwhere in the video, yet with 95% charge, maybe they live out there... Wow you guys really dug into this video lol. I was scanning the E30 most of the time. All BMW videos have been overly artsy lately.