QUESTION ID: 1327

QUESTION:
Just replaced my old worn stock shocks and springs with Bilstein Sport and H&R cabrio springs. So far, it seems fantastic. Not too low or too harsh. I’m also running stock 14” basket weaves, so that is helping the ride out as well. A few things/pointers that I ran into while doing the install: 1. Removing the strut insert collar was hard. I found a comment here on some thread about putting the collar in a vice and turning the strut around that. That did the trick! 2. Top nut on front struts was easy. I just used vice grips on the strut shaft (over electrical tape) on the old struts (they are junk). For tightening I used vice grips on a deep socket and slid the Allen key through the top. Was super easy. 3. Wanted to use a ball joint separator on the outer control arm joint, but wouldn’t fit. Banging a heavy hammer on the “sleeve” area did. 4. I used a spring compressor on the rears to get them out. I didn’t lower the diff or exhaust and was pretty easy. Though there is only room for one compressor there. Wasn’t sketchy. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1327_10):
Several things, one, those do not appear to be Bilstein sports, but likely Billy tourings, unless they are now making non-inverted sport dampers; two, the factory type gland nut would not fit Billy sports; three, that amount of engagement is okay if the damper is secure in the tube, but I suspect you could still tighten it more; four, the Billy sport type gland nut has (or did last time I saw them) two tangs that are engaged by a special tool that looks like the following.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1327_11):
Originally posted by ZeeVaughn Yeah unfortunately they didn’t come with a tool and when I emailed Bilstein the rep emailed me back, “Hello, We do not offer the tool. Any certified BMW installer will have tool to perform the install.” Anyway here is the nut I have that cake with the Billy’s (I ordered extra from summit, and also this is how far it goes down. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk That's what the gland/collar nut looked like with my recent Bilstein B4 install. At first, I was stressing the nut was cross threaded or the strut insert not seated properly. But after a few goes - that's how it landed up with the threads exposed. With some red Loctite and the appropriate tightening torque it's holding up fine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1327_12):
Originally posted by Tzantushka That's what the gland/collar nut looked like with my recent Bilstein B4 install. At first, I was stressing the nut was cross threaded or the strut insert not seated properly. But after a few goes - that's how it landed up with the threads exposed. With some red Loctite and the appropriate tightening torque it's holding up fine. Well atleast I’m not the only one. I think I’ll just measure it and keep an eye on it every so often. They’re tight in there so I assume it shouldn’t be an issue. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1327_4):
For the gland nut a pipe wrench is the best solution. At your own peril, you can zip tie (only with good ties or metal ones) the spring in to a compressed position to reinstall if needed. That avoids the whole "how do I get a compressor in there thing." Even so, keep it away from your face.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1327_6):
Yeah the gland but was not fun to get off I used a pipe wrench and some try hard for sure. With that, I wasn’t able to get the gland nut threaded all the way down into the strut housing when I reinstalled. Anyone experiencing g this or have any tips? The pipe wrench will eat away at the edges of the gland nut and/or bend the top if I keep trying to tighten it Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 1327_8):
Originally posted by ZeeVaughn Yeah the gland but was not fun to get off I used a pipe wrench and some try hard for sure. With that, I wasn’t able to get the gland nut threaded all the way down into the strut housing when I reinstalled. Anyone experiencing g this or have any tips? The pipe wrench will eat away at the edges of the gland nut and/or bend the top if I keep trying to tighten it Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk The stock gland nut doesn't generally thread all the way in, but that would depend on your inserts and their height, so measure and see how far the threads should be exposed. If your threads are messy you should just clean them up. One plus with Bilsteins is that they typically come with a different nut and a special tool to tighten them.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1327_9):
Originally posted by roguetoaster The stock gland nut doesn't generally thread all the way in, but that would depend on your inserts and their height, so measure and see how far the threads should be exposed. If your threads are messy you should just clean them up. One plus with Bilsteins is that they typically come with a different nut and a special tool to tighten them. Yeah unfortunately they didn’t come with a tool and when I emailed Bilstein the rep emailed me back, “Hello, We do not offer the tool. Any certified BMW installer will have tool to perform the install.” Anyway here is the nut I have that cake with the Billy’s (I ordered extra from summit, and also this is how far it goes down. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk