QUESTION ID: 1354

QUESTION:
Have you replaced the top on your E 30? If so, what top did you use, what did it cost? Are you happy with the top and installation? What "pitfalls" did you encounter? This is serious stuff guys.... DOC

ANSWER 1 (id: 1354_3):
Originally posted by DOC-K Really.....NOT NICE...someone steal your lollypop! People on this site are usually very helpful and spend a lot of time answering questions and posting pictures. Your small number of posts and the very general nature of your question leads to a reasonable assumption that you are either a noob to E30s or are just starting to work on yours for the first time. Nothing wrong with that. We were all there at one point. When I ask a very basic or very general question, I usually preface it with a brief explanation of the steps I've already taken to find the answer. I do this for three reasons: (1) it's a safe assumption that the question has already been answered numerous times on this site and I just failed to find the answer, (2) posting that type of question with no context leads to the very reasonable assumption that the poster thinks their time is more valuable than everyone else's and didn't spend any time searching for the answer, and (3) a little humility and self awareness goes a long way to unlocking the awesome info on this site and awesome knowledge of the community. Cory

ANSWER 2 (id: 1354_4):
Very eloquently put, Cory. Thanks. He made some very valid points & I apologize for coming off short. I was just being matter of fact.! The site & quite a few of the members here are quite helpful. Good luck & enjoy your e30! Best Regards, CAPP :-)

ANSWER 3 (id: 1354_5):
Originally posted by JasonC I got the $400 top off of Ebay. I installed it myself and very happy with it so far. Been on for little over 3 years now. This isn't the r3v of old. Thanks for the informative post Jay! The PO is hardly a noob, but maybe just isn't as forum savvy as others. ;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 1354_7):
Also for some of us visual learners, the sticky post on this topic doesn’t show up with pictures. Not sure if it’s just my iPhone or it’s everyone. Thanks!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1354_8):
Read the entire “Sticky: An E30 convertible top install” thread as a start. https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/sho...d.php?t=240865 bradnic has kindly restored the thread with photos, but you have to go to the last page to find his update. I have not yet done my top, but a friend did his and says it wasn’t that bad of a job. He’s not experienced in upholstery, but he is a master mechanic. As with most of this stuff, your individual skill level has a lot to do with how difficult the job will be for you.