QUESTION ID: 1931

QUESTION:
I've just tried to insure my car, and am having problems I want to do too many miles (12-15k a year) for a specialist insurer like Hagerty, but a normal insurer like Mercury won't touch it becuase it is modified. Modifications are M52 swap and coilover suspension. What do you all do about insurance?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1931_0):
Originally posted by zoona I've just tried to insure my car, and am having problems I want to do too many miles (12-15k a year) for a specialist insurer like Hagerty, but a normal insurer like Mercury won't touch it becuase it is modified. Modifications are M52 swap and coilover suspension. What do you all do about insurance? i've been told i have to have regular insurance and an added third party policy considering both the age and minor modifications. the standard insurance won't cover the value of the vehicle, only the liability aspect, and we aren't allowed to run without at least part of the value covered here.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1931_1):
What country are you in? In the US I think most insurance companies just ask for the VIN number and go from there. I don't recall any insurance company asking me if my car was modified. People insure modified cars all the time. I have a guaranteed rate policy from my insurance company. The rate I pay is for coverage on a set agreed upon amount. However, I think they only offer that on older / collector vehicles.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1931_2):
Originally posted by Lippy I have a guaranteed rate policy from my insurance company. The rate I pay is for coverage on a set agreed upon amount. However, I think they only offer that on older / collector vehicles. same as we have here. the plate insurance only covers liability. the set coverage is for the worth of the car. we have to have both here.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1931_4):
Originally posted by Lippy What country are you in? In the US I think most insurance companies just ask for the VIN number and go from there. I don't recall any insurance company asking me if my car was modified. People insure modified cars all the time. I have a guaranteed rate policy from my insurance company. The rate I pay is for coverage on a set agreed upon amount. However, I think they only offer that on older / collector vehicles. Yes, in the US but from the UK. Insurance here is crazy. And becuas eit is imported the VIN doesn;t show up - so they just go into a bit of a loop of not knowing what to do. I have two 'normal' cars insured with a big carrier, and a track car insured with a specialist for a couple of thousand miles. Neither carrier is interested becuase it is modified (big carrier) or i want to do too many miles (specialist). So i called my broker and they said they didn't have anybody who could insure it - not much of a broker. I then spoke to my local garage who said I shouldn't declare modifications becuase nobody does. That makes me uncomfortable. I then spoke to another broker who went away to find insurance (for a modified car) and they said that becuase i had insurance with another carrier i "had to" insure the new car through the existing carrier. This is obviously absolute bollocks. So then... I phoned another large carrier and answered all their questions truthfully (this did not include asking if there were any modifications) and they can take me. I asked them about the issue i had with the previous broker saying i had to use my existing insurer, and apparenlty it is becuase i could be considered to be double insured. Becuase the US is so litigious that the liability part of the insurance is quite large. So if i have a policy one car with carrier A and a policy with another car on carrier B, and then i drive a thrid car and have an accident - it would be a conlict of the liability insurance of the two carriers as to who woudl cover it. In the UK, you insure the car first and then any dirver of that car. It seems here you insure the person first... It has been very annoying, but I have now found somebody to insure my car...