QUESTION ID: 258

QUESTION:
So i just picked up a '88 325is and it has h&r race springs and bilstein shocks i drove it back from california to toronto, ontario and by the time i got to indianapolis i needed to buy new tires on the rear of the car. When i started my journey the tires had at least 85% life left on them and the original owner had not had them long. they look like they have alot of toe in and i do not know how to fix this, yes i have used the search button. also when i go past 50 mph the wheel has a vibration and im pretty sure it is coming from the rear. when i got new tires the tech told me that its a simple fix to get more toe out but he didnt have the part available right away. help????

ANSWER 1 (id: 258_0):
The tech LIED. There is no adjustments on the rear of an E30...none. There are adjustable eccentric trailing arm bushings, there is a major modification to your subframe to weld in adjustable eccentric bolts, there are (a bazillion dollars each) adjustable trailing arms..Gruppe A stuff, 100&#37; unobtanium, yeah, dream on. H&R Races should not make the car low enough to eat a set of tires in 3,000 miles though...something else is wrong. Luke

ANSWER 2 (id: 258_1):
Was there any unusual wear pattern to the tires? What are the alignment specs? Offset OEM type bushings are $28 for two at Bavarian Autosport. They'll give you a small (.5 degree or less) toe change. If you have fabrication skills you can slot the rear trailing arm mounts about .125" each and spot weld appropriate size washers for locating the bolts. Weld in kits are $$$ and lots of labor.

ANSWER 3 (id: 258_2):
i think the tech was talking about adjustable bushings. ive read also that worn bushings can cause a problem like this, but i guess a visit to the mechanic should fix this. and my wallet...i just got back from taking a look at it and the left side of the car sits waaaay lower then the right...sigh..the whole thing is f'd i think. so much for paying more for a "well sorted out car".

ANSWER 4 (id: 258_6):
Originally posted by papajetta check ur rear subframe bushings, notorious for causing excess toe in What? Horseshit. SFBs cannot cause toe in issues. Not in an E30, anyway.

ANSWER 5 (id: 258_7):
Originally posted by scottyp i think the tech was talking about adjustable bushings. ive read also that worn bushings can cause a problem like this, but i guess a visit to the mechanic should fix this. and my wallet...i just got back from taking a look at it and the left side of the car sits waaaay lower then the right...sigh..the whole thing is f'd i think. so much for paying more for a "well sorted out car". I am having this same problem with one side in the rear being lower than the other by 1in. I swapped springs and put new shocks, and driver side rear still sags?