QUESTION ID: 1557

QUESTION:
Seeing as how they are pretty much extinct (fronts anyway) and even if you can find some they are worth their weight in gold, it would be great if we could use the networking resources here, and see if anyone knows anyone who can do this sort of thing. Im sure someone would be willing to lend theirs as a template for reproduction. I also know there are plenty of people out there who would be down for a set, so guessing we could get enough orders to keep costs reasonable. So, who can help?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1557_0):
yea lots of talk/interest and no action i'm afraid this has come up many times on the Yahoo IX club site ,there are several that have the flaps and a fellow named Peter tried to get a set molded to no avail..... doesnt seem in todays world it should be that hard to get copies or molds made. im in for a set for sure

ANSWER 2 (id: 1557_1):
so you need to source a set, then ship them to someone who can effectively make a mold of them. what would you guys pay for a set? that'll help when figuring out costs etc.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1557_10):
Originally posted by aaron325ix I think you just volunteered to have yours used to make molds if we can ever get there. : ) Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk I will ABSOLUTELY volunteer them. OEM iX mudflaps for all!!!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1557_13):
I work at a plastic injection molding shop designing molds. Now don't get your hopes up yet. I don't think you could sell enough of these to where injection molding is viable, but I could be wrong. I could possibly help point someone in the right direction, though. Let's take a look at the shape of these mud flaps first. Can you take some high resolution photos of the front and back of the mud flaps for me? Can you draw on a another picture or make a sketch with some approximate overall dimensions? If you lay the part down flat, how thick is it from the highest to lowest point? If you lay the part down flat, are there any features on the back like a sideways hole or a pocket that would prevent it from pulling free from a molded cavity? Just imagine that all of the "air" on the back side of the part is "filled in" with a steel mold cavity and you must pull the part in only one direction to remove it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1557_4):
Originally posted by ethirtydavid so you need to source a set, then ship them to someone who can effectively make a mold of them. what would you guys pay for a set? that'll help when figuring out costs etc. I would probably start by hitting up some of the guys on the iX section at e30 tech and see if one of them would be willing to loan a set. hard to say how much I would spend. I guess it depends on how much start up on all of this would cost. And when we say a set, are we talking rears too? I know they are the same as a reg e30, but if that could be cheaper than OEM, why not?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1557_9):
Originally posted by StinkE30 Only here for the gloating...:D I think you just volunteered to have yours used to make molds if we can ever get there. : ) Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk