QUESTION ID: 2887

QUESTION:
Looking for suggestions on the best place to get Koni's online, with quick and easy shipping. Any suggestions? Turner, Pelican and ECS don't have the parts I am looking for...

ANSWER 1 (id: 2887_10):
Just received the Koni's from Fedex, only took 6 days to order and arrive at my door. Everything is exactly as they said it would be and ready to go. Great support from Shox and would definitely order from them again!

ANSWER 2 (id: 2887_11):
I really appreciate this thread. I search for things very often here throughout the r3v forums but 90% of everything I find is out dated. Some of it still works out but current vendors with accurate inventories is very very helpful.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2887_4):
Originally posted by Vincent Brick Its been a couple years, but I got my Konis from Tire Rack. I had a look here, they had them in stock and can ship to my location but wanted over $200 for shipping on a $500 order. Originally posted by roguetoaster I've used shox.com before, with decent results. However, it's been a couple of years since I last used them. Messaged them for more info as their packages on their site are very vague and dont include part numbers or anything. Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Last 2-3 sets I got from Import Replacement Parts in WA. No one could touch their price Checked here but unfortunately they dont stock any Koni options for what I need. Originally posted by AndrewBird I got my race inserts from Amazon. They were the cheapest by quite a bit. Just search the part number. Also tried Amazon (both .com and .ca) but again, unfortunately dont have the part numbers I need...or state that they are currently unavailable.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2887_6):
Originally posted by Powling I had a look here, they had them in stock and can ship to my location but wanted over $200 for shipping on a $500 order. Messaged them for more info as their packages on their site are very vague and dont include part numbers or anything. Checked here but unfortunately they dont stock any Koni options for what I need. Also tried Amazon (both .com and .ca) but again, unfortunately dont have the part numbers I need...or state that they are currently unavailable. Many suppliers have them drop shipped any way. You may want to try calling

ANSWER 5 (id: 2887_8):
Originally posted by wworm I got mine from pelican. Do they not have them anymore? They only have the rears, but not the fronts. I'd like to avoid shipping from two separate vendors if possible, since shipping and duties to up here can be a killer.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2887_9):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I've used shox.com before, with decent results. However, it's been a couple of years since I last used them. Originally posted by TobyB shox.com several times over the last 15 years. Phone call worked best for questions, iirc. t I ended up order from Shox.com. They were the cheapest price for both the items and shipping. Replied quickly to emails and phone calls as well. Great service. Fingers crossed shipping goes well and I can have them in hand next week.