QUESTION ID: 1983

QUESTION:
I'm not going to search, because I don't feel like it. How well do these dash covers fit/look? I don't think I've ever seen one in person, and my dash is starting to split pretty bad. Seems like a cheap way to may the view a little better. https://www.amazon.com/1984-1986-318...3-786e4cdc8f10 https://www.amazon.com/Front-Molded-...3-786e4cdc8f10

ANSWER 1 (id: 1983_0):
Originally posted by McGyver I'm not going to search, because I don't feel like it. How well do these dash covers fit/look? I don't think I've ever seen one in person, and my dash is starting to split pretty bad. Seems like a cheap way to may the view a little better. https://www.amazon.com/1984-1986-318...3-786e4cdc8f10 https://www.amazon.com/Front-Molded-...3-786e4cdc8f10 I’ve seen some cars sold on BAT that had these dash covers on them. From the BAT photos it was hard to tell on first glance there was a cover there. From internet research I’ve done, opinions on fitment are 50/50. Some are happy with the fitment and color/texture match, others aren’t. Here’s a YouTube video of a guy fitting one onto his E30: https://youtu.be/7NC3RBWzgGs If your car is a daily driver that will never be listed on BAT, a dash cover is an affordable alternative to a crack-free dash or a refurbished dash from Just Dashes

ANSWER 2 (id: 1983_1):
I have one in my car and prefer it to the multiple cracks in original dash. Where it comes up short is how it fits around the side vents. That said I found a crack free dash that I will eventually get around to installing.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1983_10):
Someone really needs to find a way to 3D print new E30 dashes out of ABS plastic. I'm already starting to see 3D printed ABS plastic versions of the knee panel (which looks like it's made out of flimsy fiberboard) that likes to crack; I'm surprised no one has done this for the dash yet. Probably has something to do with it being a large part with a complex shape, which I guess would make it harder to 3D scan versus the knee panel. Originally posted by varg I think UV/IR blocking clear "tint" on your windshield will help a lot, I always use a reflector when I'm parked park but the dash is still cooking hot while I'm driving on a hot day with the sun beating down through the windshield. ​ UV/IR blocking clear tint isn't enough; you also need to block some visible light if you don't want the dash to get hot in clear sunlight. When visible light hits a surface (especially if it's a dark-colored surface like the dash), it heats up the surface. I just tinted my E30 with 3M Crystalline 40 all around (lets in 40% of visible light) and let the car sit outside on a clear 80F day (no garage lyfe); the dashboard barely got hot to the touch when I got in. It doesn't get hot when I'm driving the car in clear sunlight either. The AC also works much better when it's hot and sunny out with the 40% tint. My previous E30 was tinted with Crystalline 70 all around (lets in 70% of visible light), and the dash still got hot to the touch when driving out on a clear 80F day. Based on that experience, I'm starting to think IR-blocking clear tints are now marketing garbage by tint companies.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1983_11):
Originally posted by McGyver I'm not going to search, because I don't feel like it. How well do these dash covers fit/look? I don't think I've ever seen one in person, and my dash is starting to split pretty bad. Seems like a cheap way to may the view a little better. 786e4cdc8f10[/url] l thought about dash cover. I don’t like the look on top of dash. I didn’t want to spend $500-$1000 on a supposedly perfect dash. Knowing in the future it will eventually will crack. Plus I have 5 e30’s four them have cracks on dashes. My friend spent $800 on a suede cover on dash. I was not impressed. I had some time last year to repair dash 101. I’m happy with results. I took the worst dash 19 cracks.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1983_12):
I think that you left out the most important word in my post when you formulated my reply: windshield. You do not tint your windshield with 40% tint unless you're a fucking moron. Visible light blocking tinted windshields are charger/brotruck driver behavior.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1983_2):
I think I'm going to order one of these. I did a crack free dash and I don't think the install headache was worth it. Also a couple Texas summers/winters and a couple cracks found their way. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 1983_3):
Yeah, the original dashes are all going to crack and I'm not sure I want to spend $2k on one of the improved versions that are NLA. I've installed one before, and I agree that doing it again probably isn't worth it. The only reason I would attempt it is to have an easier time converting the car to 134a, which is possible with the dash in place. For under $200, I might try it out.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1983_4):
Not bad. It's something I may consider one when I restore my E30. I don't really feel like spending $1,000+ on an old stock dash that could crack in a couple of years, nor do I feel like spending most of what I paid for the car on a dash restoration. The car will never be a show car, I love to drive, not detail. Originally posted by McGyver The only reason I would attempt it is to have an easier time converting the car to 134a, which is possible with the dash in place.For under $200, I might try it out. ​It is way easier to remove the evaporator and expansion valve with the dash in place than it is to remove the dash. I've done both.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1983_5):
I wonder how it cost to get the dash custom made in leather like AMX Performance? It would look 100x better and wonlt see cracks anymore : BMW e30 interior parts https://amx-performance.com/bmw-e30-interior-parts/

ANSWER 10 (id: 1983_6):
Originally posted by Gtfour I wonder how it cost to get the dash custom made in leather like AMX Performance? It would look 100x better and wonlt see cracks anymore : https://amx-performance.com/bmw-e30-interior-parts/ i'm sure the dash alone would be worth over 3 of my cars lol

ANSWER 11 (id: 1983_8):
If the dash covers lasted forever, I'd vouch for them as a low cost "fix" but they don't. They warp over time and apparently crack as well. I personally would still go with a used original dash at around $300-500 price point or a leather wrapped dash around $700-1000. BTW, I've installed used original dashes on 3 of my current cars over 10-15 years ago and they haven't cracked on me yet. Will they crack someday? perhaps but I think if you do the right things to protect them, they will last as long as the car. It all depends on how they were taken care of.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1983_9):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I if you do the right things to protect them, they will last as long as the car. It all depends on how they were taken care of. I dispute that. The life of the car is basically indefinite if maintained well and not exposed to salt. I went into the reasons behind it in the other dash thread, but the material is inherently life limited because of how it is made, the climate the car is in is the biggest variable, higher temps shorten the dash's life. For someone like me in FL or a desert dweller in AZ it's only a matter of time before it cracks no matter what you do, unless you keep it in a garage and don't ever leave it out in the sun all day, for example taking it to work. I think UV/IR blocking clear "tint" on your windshield will help a lot, I always use a reflector when I'm parked park but the dash is still cooking hot while I'm driving on a hot day with the sun beating down through the windshield. ​