QUESTION ID: 3332

QUESTION:
Hey fellow r3vers, I have developed a powered opener for the rear windows on my e30 coupe and I wanted to see if there was any interest from my fellow enthusiasts to further productize this into something marketable. I am a product design engineer as a profession and I have extensive experience in developing products the will last a lifetime. This particular device is powered by a small but quite robust planetary gearmotor that rotates a heim type linkage to ultimately open the rear pop out windows. If there is sufficient interest next steps would be to make it out of aluminum and anodize it with some sweeeeeet laser marking logos on it, as well as add any requests that you the enthusiasts might have. Feedback is always encouraged, but play nice. Also what kind of price point should I shoot for? Anyways here it is. Error 404 (Not Found)!!1 https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B3IiJZVrhgbJblVuUm1vT21QOXM

ANSWER 1 (id: 3332_10):
This idea is genius, but I'm not sure Id pay that kind of money not to ruin your parade or anything. I feel like members would quickly realize their manual ones work perfectly fine.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3332_12):
Originally posted by spike68 I feel like members would quickly realize their manual ones work perfectly fine. Not really. I can't even reach them without getting out of the car, folding my seat forward, and getting into the back seat. Thus, I never use them.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3332_13):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 Not really. I can't even reach them without getting out of the car, folding my seat forward, and getting into the back seat. Thus, I never use them. I'm not claiming to stand for every member here. To me climbing to the back seat or not even using them at all is a better buy than a steep price like that. I think we can all find lots of other cool and more useful things to put $275 to use.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3332_2):
Well i still need to quote out all the custom machined parts, the current ones I machined myself. It also depends on quantity, so if I get huge interest then it could come down a bit, but right now I'm thinking $275.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3332_7):
I really like it. You could have both pop out windows connected to a single window switch because who only opens one pop out? You will probably have difficulty selling at that price on R3v. I am very interested so I am subscribed to see where these goes.