QUESTION ID: 3074

QUESTION:
Note the threaded portion that would normally be attached to the brake caliper. Not really sure what the heck happened here. My intention is NOT to call out the company who branded the brake lines. Christmas of 2015 I got a complete set of SS brake lines from ECS Tuning, installed all six lines on Jan 25, 2015. Drove the car with these brake lines for well over a year and hadn't experienced a single problem with them (as one would hope). Fast forward to now, I just finished up M60 swapping my e30 and I've been working out the kinks for the last couple weeks. Finally got it to the point of driving that it could go on long trips today and drove with my girlfriend with our destination 2 hours north of Boise with a curvy mountain drive to get us there. 10 minutes from our destination, I come up to a cattle grate and slow down as to not bottom anything out. I press on the brakes, hear a clunk clunk and then the pedal goes to the floor. I used the parking brake to bring us to a stop and pull over to the side of the road. My first thought was that my brake linkage was the problem (because remote booster). I checked there first and see no signs of breaks or leaks coming from the engine bay. I look under the car and see a puddle of brake fluid on the ground. WTH? Turn the steering wheel all the way right and I can see the stainless brake line clearly disconnected from caliper with some screwed up threads. Local guy stopped to see if we needed anything, and ended up following us the rest of the way home to make sure we made it safe. (Yes I drove without brakes, engine braking and a slow speed were sufficient enough to limp home) Last Friday I heard a similar ‘clunk clunk’ in the brakes. I heard it couple more times in between Friday and today and inspected all the brakes to make sure they still worked like they should and just figured it was something internal on the brake booster. Knowing what’s broken now, I’m still trying to wrap my head around what exactly happened. I think that clunk was brake pressure slightly twisting the brake line and it twisted enough to snap the threads? But it doesn’t make sense to me that the brake lines would twist like that. Especially with enough force to snap a fitting like that. The threads do look like they were forced out of the caliper So we’re all on the same page 1. The threads were not cross threaded into the caliper 2. All brakes were bled thoroughly so there wasn’t any air in the system. 3. There were no obstacles in the road that would’ve been able to hit the line with enough force to knock it loose. 4. There was nothing obstructing or hitting the brake line during its full movement. I’m going to give ECS a call in the morning to see if they’ve had any other problems like this… Now I have to figure out how to fix the line or tow the car home. Updates to come, just thought I’d share an odd story!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3074_1):
Subd. I would like to know how this turns out too. I have been running these lines for 3 years and 12k miles and I am sure tons of other folks are too, and in other kinds of cars. Sent from my LG-H872 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3074_10):
Wow. Well, let this be a lesson to all of us, yet again. I continue to be amazed that people use stainless lines. Makes me want to get my wife and kids off the road...

ANSWER 3 (id: 3074_11):
That's not a comforting thing to see with brake lines.....definitely a cause for concern. I've never run EBC lines so I cannot voice any opinion on them. On my last E30, I ran a set (all 6) of SS lines acquired through Ireland Engineering. I put these on the car within a couple of months after I purchased this E30 and used that particular car as my DD for nearly 7 years. 65k+ miles with plenty of spirited drives and a handful of HPDEs too. Never a single issue/failure with them. The car had all stock M20B25 drivetrain and brakes.....just basic bolt-on suspension mods and a wheel/tire upgrade. Jon

ANSWER 4 (id: 3074_6):
Looks like the line was pulled with force to one side seeing how the threads are bent only on one side. Was the brake line long enough to not be pulled when turning the wheel all the way to full lock?

ANSWER 5 (id: 3074_7):
Were the calipers remanufactured? I've seen issues with big box store calipers having sloppy threads and causing over torque issues with both brake lines and bleeders. I know I've returned cores from time to time wondering how well they would work after a rebuild. I always check the bleeders especially to be sure they aren't sloppy when using a reman unit.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3074_8):
You mentioned you had just M60 swapped the car. My money is on some sort of contact with the brake line while you were installing a v8 into an E30. I am betting it wasn't intentional, but it was enough to compromise the connection slightly. Either way, let us know what happens.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3074_9):
Will keep you guys updated, I know a number of people are running these same brake lines and I’d hate to see this happen to someone else in a worse scenario. Reelizmpro – I guess if could’ve been overtightened, yes. It’s especially hard to tell since no one really tightens brake lines to a specific torque spec… But I don’t remember experiencing any problems when I installed them 2 years (No cross thread or difficulty threading them) and I rarely overtighten things, especially lines as delicate as brake lines for fear of stripping them. Word is bond - ECS lists these brake lines as “DOT-Compliant” on there website. Ttroussdell – I’ll pull off the wheel and inspect some more here in a little bit, that too is a possibility. My only thought is every time I heard the clunk, I didn’t have the wheel turned at full lock or anywhere close to it. And the cattle grate had a very straight road prior to and following it. Ahlem - The calipers were not reman’ed as far as I can tell. The look very original. MR E30 325is – I can’t recall anything that would’ve hit the brake caliper while installing the motor, plus the wheels and tires haven’t really come off the car to a point that the line would’ve been vulnerable. The more I think about this, the more thankful I am this happened in an area with no traffic, on a straight road with no water next to it, while only going about 30mph. About 70% of the 2-hour drive has a river running right next to the road (55mph speed limit), and if my brakes had failed around one of the corners we’d probably both be dead. If this happened in the city, my freshly swapped car could’ve been totaled.