QUESTION ID: 659

QUESTION:
DIY Startec Replicas Taken directly from Post 237 of my build thread. More pictures of the finished lights will be there in future posts. I wasn't willing to pay the $800+ for a used set of Startec lights, so I set about making my own replicas! I've detailed the process below, so you can attempt your own set. --- Parts used: Lenses ($110usd + shipping): Error Page | eBay https://www.ebay.ca/itm/133053221310 Sealant ($57cad): RetroRubber OEM Grade Butyl Amazon.ca https://www.amazon.ca/RetroRubber-Grade-Butyl-Headlight-Sealant/dp/B01N5PM29J Bulb paint ($10cad): Pebeo Vitrail Crimson Vitrail: How can I obtain an even line with the Cerne Relief? – Pébéo http://en.pebeo.com/Creative-leisure/PAINTING-ON-GLASS-VITREA-160-AND-VITRAIL/Vitrail Before starting, always wipe off any excess paint that comes out of the tube. When applying, use the tube like a pencil and make sure you apply even pressure. Two taillight housings (preferably cracked/damaged lenses). VHT Niteshades ($22cad) --- Directions:Paint inside of new lenses with VHT Niteshades.This was my first time using Niteshades. Be aware it goes on quickly. I achieved the pictured darkness on my first coat while only seeking to apply an even layer. Heat taillight assemblies in oven @ 230f for 10 minutes.I removed all of the metal studs, and placed lights on a block of wood on the bottom rack. Smash out existing lenses with a hammer. Wear eye protection. Remove bits of leftover lens from edges while lights are still warm. Heat RetroRubber sealant in oven for a few minutes to soften. Stretch sealant thin and apply to all edges on taillight housing. You only need a little bit to make a seal.I used too much on my driver's side (first attempt) and the finished product doesn't look as good up close. Place lens on top of sealant & housing. Place in oven on top of wood. I used additional wood on top of lens to weigh down.I followed Morimoto directions and went for 7min @ 270f. This melted/distored my lenses in a few spots. I'd recommend starting at 230f and adding heat/time to melt the sealant if needed. Paint bulbs red as needed to achieve startec colour reflective effect. I used wiring from a spare bulb tray to wire my rear fogs in parallel with the brake lights. --- Additional notes and areas for improvement: My taillight housings only had a reflective (chrome coated) surface on some of the internals. Adding a reflective surface to the rear fog areas would help to improve the lens colour effect. I'm not sure the best way to achieve this, as I've used chrome spraypaint before and it sprays out more like silver paint. I am also converting my lamps to LED for added brightness. So far I've used the same glass/bulb paint on the LEDs with success. (no bulbs)

ANSWER 1 (id: 659_1):
Originally posted by Mike36 Thanks for that, any way to clean up the black lines between the lenses? My driver's side was my first attempt ever at resealing a lens, and I used too much sealant. Passenger side lines look better. On the car, you can't see any of the imperfections. (Or at least they're overshadowed by all of the other faults on my car in particular.) You could also attempt to use a different type/colour of sealant.

ANSWER 2 (id: 659_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Nah, I have NOS Startecs and have owned many, many sets. They were never as dark as the new batch. Even the later smoked sets aren't as dark. Ah, so they just got new batch wrong. Shame too because they were so close! Running some bright LEDs in mine so functionality isn't affected (maybe save for the reverse lights), but with stock bulbs the extra tint is no bueno.

ANSWER 3 (id: 659_8):
Just for comparison. From my build thread: Pushed the easy button and reluctantly shelled out the cash for a set of the new-run Startec taillights, after they came up for sale locally. Have the parts on-hand to make another DIY set, but haven't made the time to do it. Good comparison shot on the ground: stock top left, stock with spray tint bottom left, DIY Startec top right, new-run Startec bottom right. They are darker then the vintage startec lights, but perhaps 30+ years of UV makes all the originals lighter.​