QUESTION ID: 2997

QUESTION:
Im looking to see what you guys think I could sell my car for. Its a 1990 325I. It does have one major issue now. I had a rebuilt getrag 260 from Gear-heads installed, and first, second, and reverse are all stripped already. The car turns over fine and can drive if you start out in third gear. Swap in a new transmission and the car will drive like new. I also believe there is a short somewhere that is causing check lights to pop up even though there are no issues. A rebuilt M20 from Bimmerheads has been installed, along with a rebuilt driveshaft, and fuel injectors. All new brake rotors and pads within 2 months ago. Oil changed meticulously. Had vacuum leaks fixed for a better idle as well. I have receipts for everything. The body is in great shape, as is the interior. No rust or dents on the outside. No tears on seats, just stress marks from people sitting in it for almost 30 years now. Trunk doesn't leak. Crack free dash. There is a crack on the windshield that is on the passenger side. Tried to post pictures but they need to be sized down, as they are huge

ANSWER 1 (id: 2997_1):
I see your 50, and bump you to tree- fiddy! Seriously, OP, a junkyard trans, a lot of Scrubbing Bubbles, and good pix, and then maybe we can hazard you a guess... t

ANSWER 2 (id: 2997_10):
Originally posted by Stanley Rockafella how long ago was the trans done? without pics, it's worth exactly $40.00 I wouldn't pay 40.00 unseen for anything. lol

ANSWER 3 (id: 2997_12):
Originally posted by sail boat first, we need pictures second, we need mileage third, we need accident/body history fourth, need pictures of your girlfriend. qft

ANSWER 4 (id: 2997_13):
Mileage is 157XXX on the body, about 10,000 on the motor. They told me theres no warranties on their transmissions. Just heard back from the owner of their business, they closed down. He says it sounds like a broken shift fork than stripped gears. Not sure how hard of a job that is to fix. Interior shot is a few months old from before the swap. Unfortunately no girlfriend, sorry 2mAn [IMG]Untitled by Nick Yocono, on Flickr[/IMG] [IMG]Untitled by Nick Yocono, on Flickr[/IMG] [IMG]Untitled by Nick Yocono, on Flickr[/IMG]