QUESTION ID: 3267

QUESTION:
I wanted to hear some of your guys thoughts as I'm super anal about letting anybody drive my car (let alone a stranger). Curious if any of you would or are using the app. For those unfamiliar with it, its kind of like an AirBNB for cars?? Anyways the buddy who intro'd me to it used it to rent someone's newer X5 when he visited San Diego a few weeks ago for like $80/day. I decided to check it out since the wifey and I are headed out to Denver in a few weeks. I found a dude renting out his manual '07 Porsche 911 4S for $130/day. Another guy renting out his brand new Porsche GT3 with a rollcage for $330/day (!!! figured that probably wasn't the best option for early December in the mountains lol). I wound up pulling the trigger on the 4S and we head out in a few weeks. Just curious would anyone on here actually let a stranger rent their BMW??? I can't imagine doing that with my own car. Or has anyone used the app to rent someone's car? How was the experience? Good? Bad? Indifferent? Love to hear your guys thoughts. Interesting concept and IMO a great way to get access to driving bucket list cars for cheap without going through some exotic dealer. EDIT- Here's the $25 off referral link they sent me for first time users: https://turo.com/referral?code=2095870rsv7sw The 911 that we booked (not a fan of the black rims, but it's a 911 none the less.) And maybe next time... :D

ANSWER 1 (id: 3267_1):
Sounds like a good idea for someone who wants to drive many cars that you cannot own. If I had a expensive luxury car and let someone borrow it I'd be scared to know that they are beating on it and then have to pay someone to fix it if it breaks

ANSWER 2 (id: 3267_10):
wow, i can't possibly see insurance companies being OK with this. most of them won't cover your spouse or children as drivers unless they are specifically stated on your account, let alone complete strangers. there must be a super long legal disclaimer (in the favor of the owner) that probably says you are responsible for an engine overhaul if a bug splats on the radiator. or, maybe these are just dealers or rental agencies posing as regular people?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3267_12):
Not an E30. E30's are usually modified to our tastes and a lot harder to replace. However, it would be a good way to help pay off a new 235i, or something that can be easily replaced if something does happen.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3267_4):
Would not rent out my car to anyone. Hell, my best friend drove my E30 only a couple of times during my years and years of ownership. Some of the time we even lived in the same house and shared a garage. I wouldn't rent my car because I am not a baller. I bet people renting these beautiful cars own a SC'ed Range Rover, an SRT-8, etc. and have this extra car they drive around on weekends sometimes, but they aren't attached to it at all in the way we are to our shitboxes. I would probably rent someones car if I was in the mood. I agree with everyone on the bucket list aspect of it. I would just have a hard time justifying renting one. The wife drives a new Crosstrek which does great on roadtrips and I have the M3/4/5 that satisfies the hooning desire.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3267_5):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is I wouldn't rent my car because I am not a baller. I bet people renting these beautiful cars own a SC'ed Range Rover, an SRT-8, etc. and have this extra car they drive around on weekends sometimes, but they aren't attached to it at all in the way we are to our shitboxes. That's exactly it. I would rent a car, sure. But I would not let anyone drive my e30 without me nearby. Not out of my sight.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3267_6):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is but they aren't attached to it at all in the way we are to our shitboxes. so very true. And probably a little depressing. HA

ANSWER 7 (id: 3267_8):
If you're rich enough to own nice cars and not care about them, why would you bother renting them out when you don't need the money? That makes no sense to me whatsoever, especially when you factor in the increased repair costs and insurance premiums. As for my own cars, there's no way I'm renting any of them out. Even replacing my daily (E34 M5) would be incredibly difficult with an unlimited budget as these cars are rare everywhere now, and it would be very easy for someone to ruin the (N.L.A.) cloth interior.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3267_9):
I dont think I could do this my self, Having to send the car there, rent it out and come and get all for $60-130 dollars doesn't seem worth it when you have full time work to do. Maybe if I were part time and e30's were easily to find then yes I would give it shot. worst comes to worst the company pays you for repairs?