QUESTION ID: 1586

QUESTION:
I have H&R Sport springs currently installed that look pretty gnarly and I am replacing the OEM strut catridges with Bilstein Heavy Duty b6's. I would prefer the original OEM Springs that came with 325ix as I'm not into lowered e30s much. Would the OEM springs affect the Heavy duty struts? Lastly, Im looking to have CV&J axles repair my driver side CV Joint, but should I have both sides repaird or was it just the driver side that was hard to source parts for? ECS has a discount on new H&R springs, but like I said I don't care for the lowered appeal on Ix vehicles. CV&J wants 400 per axle to repair (which is fair as I don't want to pay 1500 for new ones) and the B6s have been purchased already.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1586_0):
There are places that will refurbish your axles for $150 ea. Keep looking, do not settle for that price you posted. Also if you're going back to stock springs, the B6's are just fine. Good combo.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1586_1):
As said above, Billy HD and stock springs will be fine. Two items to consider, you can change spring pad thickness to reduce spring drop to get closer to OE if you want another set of H&Rs, or you can get new factory springs for something like $600 a set. $400 per axle might be okay if they are inspecting the shaft and are using absolutely top shelf components, but most shops aren't, so shop around or understand exactly what you are getting for your money.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1586_2):
Thanks for the info! Ill keep looking for someone to rebuild my axles. ECS keeps dropping the price, so Ill reconsider getting a new set of H&R springs with different pads.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1586_3):
Originally posted by IncogutheIII Thanks for the info! Ill keep looking for someone to rebuild my axles. ECS keeps dropping the price, so Ill reconsider getting a new set of H&R springs with different pads. You already have a set of H&R's, right? Why buy a new set?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1586_5):
Yea most of the material covering the springs has broken off and the springs have started to rust. I mean they still hold up, but ECS was selling a new set for $171, which as of now I just missed out on haha (just sold out).