QUESTION ID: 214

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, first post here. I've relied on this forum to solve a bunch of my problems for years, but I've finally ran into something I haven't seen before. I have a '91 BMW e30 (airbag) that I'm swapping a z3 rack into (pt# 1 092 031). I have read a bunch of threads on e30 rack swaps, and my understanding was that the z3 rack (with part # provided) was a direct swap, and didn't need to modify the firewall plate or the linkage. I am using 14mm Garagistic spacers and solid steering coupler. Problem is I can't get the rack to line up with the subframe mounts. I have tried spacers on top, bottom, front holes, rear holes, and even removing the solid coupler to shorten up the linkage a bit. I still have a few mm of spline on the rack to pound the linkage down on, but I can't imagine that's my issue. I have compared my original 318is vs z3 racks and I'm not even sure they have the same pinion angle. One potential problem I've heard about on here is some mystic "steering column sag", but the interior length of the column doesn't look modified/slouched. Any help would be appreciated, I can't wait for the wheels to point in the same direction again.

ANSWER 1 (id: 214_0):
Airbag cars need to modify the firewall plate. I did mine about 6 months ago. Also, did you loosen the steering shaft nut? On second link, scroll down to see pictures of steering shaft inside the cabin. The shaft is two pieces, after you loosen the nut, you can push in the shaft a bit to make it shorter (engine side shaft, push into cabin side). Hope it make sense after looking at the pictures. The nut is really tight and I believe it tightens counterclockwise. https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...te-model-e30-s Sloppy BMW E30 steering wheel fix https://bimmertips.com/sloppy-e30-steering-fix/ Problem: Sloppy E30 steering wheel Application: E30 Solution: Tighten steering column coupler Cost: FREE Slop or play in the E30 steering wheel is a very

ANSWER 2 (id: 214_1):
Hey eLKuRLy thanks for the response! Not sure how I missed that, maybe I'm misinterpreting the "straight swap for z3" part of the tutorials. I'll definitely go grab one of those from ie or KIRIEIW, thanks for the tip. Bummer about missing this step before I repainted the firewall, lol.

ANSWER 3 (id: 214_2):
Originally posted by boostedHoopty Hey eLKuRLy thanks for the response! Not sure how I missed that, maybe I'm misinterpreting the "straight swap for z3" part of the tutorials. I'll definitely go grab one of those from ie or KIRIEIW, thanks for the tip. Bummer about missing this step before I repainted the firewall, lol. No problem! The boot covers the firewall pretty well. It should not look too bad if you don't hack the firewall.

ANSWER 4 (id: 214_3):
Just as an update to whoever sees this, there is basically no way to install a later/Z3 rack on an airbag car without doing some cutting. I ended up getting an IE zinc plate for the relocation. I wanted a straight shot from the column to the rack, so I also picked up a condorSpeedShop column. Wasn't exactly cheap, but looks great and fits well with the IE plate. I've covered my professional dremel work with some trim edging. Looks great, will try to find a boot if I end up getting too much road debris/flaming engine parts in cabin. The Condor column also gives you a lot of flexibility in mounting the rack. Since the Z3 rack main tube ends up smashing into the subframe tabs when mounted in the PAS holes with 14mm spacers underneath (rear, front mounting points are for non-PAS mechanical racks as far as I understand), I ended up mounting the rack with the 14mm spacers up top (lower CG, racecar racecar etc). Hoping this doesn't mean any fitment issues when I get a skid plate. Attached Files

ANSWER 5 (id: 214_4):
About e30 z3 rack swap woes hey man, im glad that you got your thing work out, im doing the same thing on mine too and facing the same problem you have, z3 rack swap on my 1991 318i airbag version, my mounting holes did not line up as well, i did try to lose the big nut under the dash like the guy above said but i couldnt do it, it was too tight, i didnt trim the fire wall(just yet). My question is, i see you have condor linkage on and i cant afford it atm, did trimming the firewall can make the rack line up with the mounting holes? thank you for reading this