QUESTION ID: 2018

QUESTION:
Car is a 84 318 with the powerful m10! Bought it with a horrendous eBay shifter in it and it needs to go. Wasn’t sure if the z3 shifter worked with those transmissions, any advice on what route to go would be great.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2018_0):
I installed the 1.9 Z3 shifter in my 84 318i. Certainly results in shorter throws, but with some increased shifting effort. I do seem to contact the left side of the console opening more when shifting into reverse. The other versions of the Z3 shifter will produce even shorter throws, but with what many think is too much effort. You should replace all the bushings at the same time.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2018_1):
I have an 88 325i and it also came with a crap ebay shifter. I swapped it out for a stock unit and am happy with it. The ebay shifter was impossible to get into gear. So much easier to drive with the OE shifter.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2018_10):
i still need some poly engine and transmission mounts to install it, so i can't report feel, but the garagistic floor-mount looks very nice sitting on my shelf, and $400 isn't a terrible price compared to a new shifter and replacing all of the bushings (which you should do if you go that route).

ANSWER 4 (id: 2018_11):
Originally posted by decay i still need some poly engine and transmission mounts to install it, so i can't report feel, but the garagistic floor-mount looks very nice sitting on my shelf, and $400 isn't a terrible price compared to a new shifter and replacing all of the bushings (which you should do if you go that route). They don’t make a plug and play m10 option, and I don’t think I need a chassis mount shifter for my car that has a 0-60 of 10 minutes, so not worth the fab for me.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2018_12):
yeah, i get it. it's a bolt-in for my z3. on my last e30 (m42 car) the z3 1.9 shifter felt great, like the factory should have delivered it that way. i didn't have any issues with interference, but, different transmission.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2018_13):
The garagistics Chassis Mounted Shifter with the double shear rod is what I use. I hate a sloppy shifter. Any car I buy that's one the first things I tackle. I'm not sure what you're looking for in a shifter. But if it's tightness and bolt action like then I would go with something that mounts directly to the chassis. Garagistics offers a lot different options for your needs. From OE to Modified.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2018_2):
Originally posted by Lippy I have an 88 325i and it also came with a crap ebay shifter. I swapped it out for a stock unit and am happy with it. The ebay shifter was impossible to get into gear. So much easier to drive with the OE shifter. My exact situation. Wasn’t sure if I should revert back to stock or if a z3 would give me similar troubles.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2018_3):
Originally posted by Sunnyledge I installed the 1.9 Z3 shifter in my 84 318i. Certainly results in shorter throws, but with some increased shifting effort. I do seem to contact the left side of the console opening more when shifting into reverse. The other versions of the Z3 shifter will produce even shorter throws, but with what many think is too much effort. You should replace all the bushings at the same time. Would you say the trade offs are worth it or would you stick with stock? Was going to replace everything, but wasn’t sure if the z3 would be too rough over the stock

ANSWER 9 (id: 2018_4):
Currently have a 1.9 Z3 shifter w/ DSSR and Delrin bushings. Overall better shifting experience. Had to get rid of the driveshaft harmonic balancer as it was making just enough contact to affect going into reverse. Only thing I would avoid would be Delrin/Poly bushings if comfort is your main focus.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2018_5):
I installed the Z3 shifter when I resurrected my car after sitting for a decade. What I remember about the factory setup was that it was the easiest shifting manual transmission car I ever owned. I have no regrets about the Z3 shifter in 1 thru 5, just that R is a little more difficult to engage, and I don’t know if that is the shift lever or something I did with the installation. One thing to know is that the original shifter is a 2 part item. The Z3 is a single piece and IIRC you need to split the top ball cup and retainer in order to complete the installation.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2018_6):
I'm not sure how much of this applies to the M10, but I can speak to my experience with the 6-cyl engine/trans combos. Likely a chassis mount shifter can be made to work with any trans. - Previously had the 1.9 Z3 short shifter behind the G260 transmission. Loved the throw reduction and slightly notchy feel. When I swapped in the ZF320 transmission, I changed to a CRS Chassis Mount Shifter w/Delrin knob. It wasn't a bolt-on affair, as I modified a garagistic DSSR​ to work for the setup. I've gone back once and increased the throw length with the built-in CRS shifter adjustment threads. In the future I will be lengthening the DSSR to move the shift knob closer to the dash. I may also cut down the (steel) shift lever rod if I want to lower the knob position, but want to get the fore/aft position correct first. Certainly a lot more fiddly then the Z3 setup, but I am able to fine-tune the shifter to get it feeling just how I want it.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2018_7):
Originally posted by Dawskip My exact situation. Wasn’t sure if I should revert back to stock or if a z3 would give me similar troubles. I was thinking about going with the Z3 option but read I had to bend something or modify a bracket to make it work and said forget it. Felt like I'd just be creating more problems.

ANSWER 13 (id: 2018_8):
Originally posted by Sunnyledge I installed the 1.9 Z3 shifter in my 84 318i. Certainly results in shorter throws, but with some increased shifting effort. I do seem to contact the left side of the console opening more when shifting into reverse. The other versions of the Z3 shifter will produce even shorter throws, but with what many think is too much effort. You should replace all the bushings at the same time. Wait, it still hits the console?? I thought the shorter throws meant there's also shorter side to side movement as well. That was my main reason for wanting the short shifter, I'm tired of hitting the console. Well... what now?

ANSWER 14 (id: 2018_9):
Originally posted by hozzziii Wait, it still hits the console?? I thought the shorter throws meant there's also shorter side to side movement as well. That was my main reason for wanting the short shifter, I'm tired of hitting the console. Well... what now? That's probably simply from worn out bushings- a refreshed linkage with any flavor shifter shouldn't be moving that much. Unfortunately the nature of the early model sheet metal shift console makes it a little more challenging to firm up...