QUESTION ID: 2002

QUESTION:
I'm planning on road-tripping my E30 from NM to CA at the beginning of March and needed some advice on how to prep her, so I can have as few hiccups as possible The car is a 1987 convertible with 190, xxx. Completely bone stock mechanically, and has been maintained properly over the last year and a half by me. I bought the car in AZ in 10/21 and drove it back to NM about 420+ miles without a single hiccup. It hasn't really had a long drive like that since, and I drove it back on piss water coolant without knowing, but it did fine. Since then, I have replaced all the hoses, done a coolant flush twice, and kept up with the general maintenance. I'm planning on doing the oil and spark plugs a few days before the trip, and I'm bringing along extra fluids, fuses, and a spare fuel pump just in case. Any other suggestions as to what else I might need? Thanks All!​ Update: Made from NM-CA and up and down the PCH, and from SD back to ABQ. 1,938mi and not a single issue along the way.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2002_0):
Have you changed out your soft fuel lines? There are a bunch at the gas tank and more in the engine bay. Bring a small ratchet & wrench set. I would also recommend an Element brand solid-state fire extinguisher. Tires are recent, including the spare?

ANSWER 2 (id: 2002_1):
Originally posted by Panici Tires are recent, including the spare? Does the spare have air in it at the correct pressure? Bring a boost pack, they're so much better than jumper cables because you don't need to rely on another car. If you're doing repairs, give yourself a week of driving it to be sure you didn't screw anything up. Just check basic maintenance (oil, coolant, water pump / timing belt, belts, hoses, bulbs, etc.) I agree about having a small tool kit for little fixes. Don't stress it and have fun!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2002_10):
Ok, modifying my response a little. Electrical - Keep some spare fuses and a relay General Repair - Some gorilla tape and zip ties Safety - Backpack with water, whistle, knife, flashlight, space blanket, first air kit, rope, cliff bars Like roguetoaster said, most issues aren't going to be fixed on the side of the road. A spare fuel pump isn't a bad idea, but that's a lot of cash to have rolling around your car while the warranty expires. If you're worried about the fuel pump, just replace it pre-emptively (especially if it's buzzing).

ANSWER 4 (id: 2002_11):
Seconding everything said above. If you question it, preventative maintenance will usually sort out a possible "issue". You can't plan for everything, but you can decrease your chances of issues. ==== For things you can't fix on the side of the road: AAA Membership --- The number one "Tool" I think everyone should have in their wallet. Getting the car to a auto-parts store parking lot, or an actual repair center is better than the side of the road. AAA Plus and Plus RV gets you (FIVE) free 100 Mile tows per year. I've had this since I was 16. There were a few years I use 3-4 per year. I was able to help friends get their cars home or to somewhere it they could be worked on. Even used it a few times to get a newly purchased parts car or other to and from places. Note: They don't allow "convenience tows" so if you're trying to use it for that, be smart and or creative. I've really considered stepping it up to their "AAA Premier" when if I plan to take a roadtrip, that way you get [One tow up to 200 miles*; three tows up to 100 miles] this would hopefully get said vehicle to my preferred repair spot on a long drive. https://mwg.aaa.com/automotive/roadside https://mwg.aaa.com/automotive/roadside/tow-truck-service ==== Even if your insurance has free "roadside assistance" AAA is sometimes easier to do. 1. Use Google maps to locate where it's going - within 100 miles etc. 2. Always specify flat bed, and have them confirm flatbed. You don't want to wait 45-90 minutes and a non-flat bed shows up to tow your e30 - been there. 3. Get the car somewhere safe to work on. 4. Reset, get to work. 5. Profit? ==== On road trips where you are travelling long distances, it's also a decent idea to maybe have some contacts along the way you can reach out to, not necessary but can be helpful. Non-Car related stuff: - Map of Route (non-GPS dependent) - Spare Drinking Water (Gallon per person at min) the common rule is gallon per day per person when away from civilization but if you break down, and are out of water, that gallon will be beneficial. - Fully Charged USB Brick/Battery - To Charge Cell Phones if necessary if for some reason you find yourself with a dead cell phone battery and have to make a call. Not a bad list here: https://www.themandagies.com/30-road-trip-essentials/

ANSWER 5 (id: 2002_12):
Fuel pump isn't that much and I bet statically its one of the higher things that leave folks stranded. Newer pumps don't last 20 years. Id even consider a tested used pump.. If you're E30 is worth more than book value Hagerty has 100 mile Tow and some road side assistance too.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2002_13):
Originally posted by DEV0 E30 Seconding everything said above. If you question it, preventative maintenance will usually sort out a possible "issue". You can't plan for everything, but you can decrease your chances of issues. ==== For things you can't fix on the side of the road: AAA Membership --- The number one "Tool" I think everyone should have in their wallet. Getting the car to a auto-parts store parking lot, or an actual repair center is better than the side of the road. AAA Plus and Plus RV gets you (FIVE) free 100 Mile tows per year. I've had this since I was 16. There were a few years I use 3-4 per year. I was able to help friends get their cars home or to somewhere it they could be worked on. Even used it a few times to get a newly purchased parts car or other to and from places. Note: They don't allow "convenience tows" so if you're trying to use it for that, be smart and or creative. I've really considered stepping it up to their "AAA Premier" when if I plan to take a roadtrip, that way you get [One tow up to 200 miles*; three tows up to 100 miles] this would hopefully get said vehicle to my preferred repair spot on a long drive. https://mwg.aaa.com/automotive/roadside https://mwg.aaa.com/automotive/roadside/tow-truck-service ==== Even if your insurance has free "roadside assistance" AAA is sometimes easier to do. 1. Use Google maps to locate where it's going - within 100 miles etc. 2. Always specify flat bed, and have them confirm flatbed. You don't want to wait 45-90 minutes and a non-flat bed shows up to tow your e30 - been there. 3. Get the car somewhere safe to work on. 4. Reset, get to work. 5. Profit? ==== On road trips where you are travelling long distances, it's also a decent idea to maybe have some contacts along the way you can reach out to, not necessary but can be helpful. Non-Car related stuff: - Map of Route (non-GPS dependent) - Spare Drinking Water (Gallon per person at min) the common rule is gallon per day per person when away from civilization but if you break down, and are out of water, that gallon will be beneficial. - Fully Charged USB Brick/Battery - To Charge Cell Phones if necessary if for some reason you find yourself with a dead cell phone battery and have to make a call. Not a bad list here: https://www.themandagies.com/30-road-trip-essentials/ Recently sprung for AAA premier and asked myself why in the world I never had it in the past; no more "range anxiety," something that has existed far before the EV craze for owners of temperamental classic cars. Also, it pays for itself after one short tow, and can be used on vehicles you don't even own.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2002_2):
The only small fix you are seriously likely to implement on the side of the road would be the alternator belt. Almost everything else would require a tow, at least an overnight stay to wait for parts, or a rental car so you can come back later. Also, do yourself a favor, never do any work on the car with the stock jack except swapping to the spare wheel, even then, put a block under the jack and put the wheel you remove under the sill for safety. For me, I only ever used the tools in the factory tool kit, maybe a knife to rapidly remove the PS belt, and only ever kept the alt belt with a single replacement bulb for each critical light in the car (low beam, tail light, license plate light).

ANSWER 8 (id: 2002_3):
If you haven't done these in a while, do them now. Like said above, the soft fuel lines by the fuel filter, and the two fuel lines in the engine compartment, one to the rail and one from the regulator. Change the voltage regulator if you haven't in a while. Make sure none of the coolant hoses are oil soaked, or showing signs of coolant buildup where they connect. Check the main intake boot. Give it a squeeze and see if it cracks. Keep in mind what kind of failures are detrimental to driving; over heating, fuel supply, spark supply and tires. Run through those and you should have some peace of mind. Assuming it's an m20 car.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2002_4):
Most stuff is obvious, hoses, belts, fuses, relays, sensors, tape and zipties. All of it fits in a nice little box. Do yourself a favor and bring a spare fuel pump and the tools to change it . I've been over everything on my E30, and you know what failed when I went on the way home from my road trip and forced me to trailer it home? The 7 year old fuel pump. If I had a spare, including some spade connectors since the connector melted down with the pump, I would have been able to change it at the gas station and saved a a bunch of money towing it 300mi home with a stupid big uhaul.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2002_5):
I daily mine - have for years - can drive 100_ miles a day away from my home - and have run into a variety of issues over the years. SO I have a spare water pump, belts, fuel pump, fuel filter, spare fuel line, radiator hoses, Main relay, Fuses, Fuel pump relay, AFM, ICV, spark plugs, vacuum hose line, hose clamps. jumper wires (spare wiring / clips) . I carry a multimeter and junk yard tools (wrenches screw drivers, sockets, ratchet, allen bits, start bits etc) - deWalt impact and Dewalt spot light. Everything fits easily into the trunk. I also make sure your jack is working and carry one that works for you. My ol girl has 320,000 miles, so I need to be ready for anything.. I sometime take 500 mile trips with me and wife - so I have to be ready to fix it in rural midwest with little or no part providers nearby Most likely you wont need it.. but if you do you can get the job done.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2002_6):
Originally posted by 95BMWIC I daily mine - have for years - can drive 100_ miles a day away from my home - and have run into a variety of issues over the years. SO I have a spare water pump, belts, fuel pump, fuel filter, spare fuel line, radiator hoses, Main relay, Fuses, Fuel pump relay, AFM, ICV, spark plugs, vacuum hose line, hose clamps. jumper wires (spare wiring / clips) . I carry a multimeter and junk yard tools (wrenches screw drivers, sockets, ratchet, allen bits, start bits etc) - deWalt impact and Dewalt spot light. Everything fits easily into the trunk. I also make sure your jack is working and carry one that works for you. My ol girl has 320,000 miles, so I need to be ready for anything.. I sometime take 500 mile trips with me and wife - so I have to be ready to fix it in rural midwest with little or no part providers nearby Most likely you wont need it.. but if you do you can get the job done. This is my kind of prep for my road trip anxiety.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2002_7):
The two things that have left me stranded in 25 years of E30 driving are the fusible link in the trunk on the positive long cable and the fuel pump relay --- knock on wood! I think there are other relays under the hood that will substitute for the fuel pump and main fuel injection relays (which are the same, I think).

ANSWER 13 (id: 2002_8):
Originally posted by 95BMWIC I daily mine - have for years - can drive 100_ miles a day away from my home - and have run into a variety of issues over the years. SO I have a spare water pump, belts, fuel pump, fuel filter, spare fuel line, radiator hoses, Main relay, Fuses, Fuel pump relay, AFM, ICV, spark plugs, vacuum hose line, hose clamps. jumper wires (spare wiring / clips) . I carry a multimeter and junk yard tools (wrenches screw drivers, sockets, ratchet, allen bits, start bits etc) - deWalt impact and Dewalt spot light. Everything fits easily into the trunk. I also make sure your jack is working and carry one that works for you. My ol girl has 320,000 miles, so I need to be ready for anything.. I sometime take 500 mile trips with me and wife - so I have to be ready to fix it in rural midwest with little or no part providers nearby Most likely you wont need it.. but if you do you can get the job done. Now that sounds like you're ready for an adventure!

ANSWER 14 (id: 2002_9):
Maybe start of what you've replaced since owning. Obvious stuff is like anything rubber and all engine sensors with genuine ones. I keep relays, fuses, Fuel pump, Crank sensor, Spark plugs, Oil, Octane booster, Modified master cylinder, racers tape, Head lamp, and tools sorted into canvas bags.