QUESTION ID: 859

QUESTION:
I bought an m52b28 from a guy in Craigslist years ago. And i currently dissembled the engine. I have all the emission required to go through the bar, but I read online that a I need the vin from the original car and bill of sale ready for the bar ref? I just bought a couple thousand dollars of part to fully rebuild this engine but i dont want to do anything until i know for sure ill pass the bar. Anybody had similar experience in california? If not Im just gonna have to source a different engine

ANSWER 1 (id: 859_0):
Are you planning to BAR the car as an OBD2 M52? If so, the back of the cylinder head may still have the VIN sticker still intact. When I went through the BAR process with my OBD1 M50 swap, the bill of sale I provided did not include a VIN. I think the bill of sale was more so to prove the engine wasn't stolen. In my case, the ECU VIN was used to check the emissions compliance, but it's not uncommon for requirements can vary between referee stations. I'm not as familiar with BAR legal OBD2 swaps, but some good info in this thread with other people's experiences. If possible, it might be helpful to talk to the referee station you plan on using to discuss the requirements before moving forward with your current engine plans, hopefully clearing things up and potentially preventing any unnecessary headaches.

ANSWER 2 (id: 859_1):
Originally posted by mtech325 Are you planning to BAR the car as an OBD2 M52? If so, the back of the cylinder head may still have the VIN sticker still intact. When I went through the BAR process with my OBD1 M50 swap, the bill of sale I provided did not include a VIN. I think the bill of sale was more so to prove the engine wasn't stolen. In my case, the ECU VIN was used to check the emissions compliance, but it's not uncommon for requirements can vary between referee stations. I'm not as familiar with BAR legal OBD2 swaps, but some good info in this thread with other people's experiences. If possible, it might be helpful to talk to the referee station you plan on using to discuss the requirements before moving forward with your current engine plans, hopefully clearing things up and potentially preventing any unnecessary headaches. yeah bro im trying to pass it through bar, the problem is i work morning to hella late and i barely have time to talk to them. Did you have to provide a bill of sale? Can they figure out if the engine stolen through the engine vin/ecu? If not then ill just get a s50/s52 instead