QUESTION ID: 2288

QUESTION:
I looked through the DIY section but didn't see this asked before, so... I have the Transmission, motor and front cross member out of the car. I'm starting to put together a rebuilt motor. Those that have done this before - what advice might you have for a newb? While in there I'm replacing some things, but wonder about others. Things I'm replacing 1. Lower end (rebuilt) 2. Head (rebuilt) +head bolts 3. All gaskets related to head replacement and oil pan to block. 4. Water pump 5. Thermostat 6. Water hoses 7. Vacuum lines 8. Spark plugs/cap/rotor 9. Clutch kit (pressure plate, disc, flywheel bolts, throwout bearing) Things I'm wonder about: Should I replace? a. Motor mounts b. Tranny mount c. Front wheel bearings (everything is torn apart) d. Oil pump (or related gaskets) - I can't find this item for sale online e. Slave cylinder f. Metal tube on rear of motor for coolant (my old e36 had this part made of plastic and it failed) f. Fan? Thanks for any advice you have, Glen ​ Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2288_0):
it's not too much different from a standard M20. The only thing is the block casting is unique. you also *must* keep the ix intermediate shaft, idler shaft, and oil pump. None of it is compatible or useable on a RWD block, or vice versa. Otherwise, anything that applies to any other M20 will work on the ix. There's almost no reason to replace the oil pump unless it was damaged somehow. but you're going to be looking for a used one anyway, because they have been NLA for years now. the ix doesn't have a standard transmission mount. there's a bushing in the transfercase. I'd inspect it, if it's been replaced once already (likely, these cars are 30 years old now), I'd leave it. You risk cracking the transfercase housing if you replace it needlessly. there's no reason to replace the coolant pipe on the back of the head. it's metal, so it would have to be extremely corroded. is the clutch fan good? if it is, there's no reason to replace it. it'll be hard to test with the engine out of the car though..

ANSWER 2 (id: 2288_1):
Thanks! The donor motor I bought is also from an IX so I'm good on some fronts. I haven't done an engine replacement in over 20 years. My brother left this car when he passed so I decided to fix it up it for him. I'll have to get it painted after the engine replacement. I don't know BMWs very well, so there is a learning curve for sure. My daily is a F10 535 but I let the shop work on that one