QUESTION ID: 3492

QUESTION:
is it a good idea to buy an e30 stickshift for learning? should i be worried of learning on a 20+ year old car? possibly with a worn out clutch?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3492_0):
Dude, I learned on mine within a few hours. E30s are stupid easy to learn stick on. The clutches are very forgiving and not very heavy, and besides, any one you find that doesn't have record of a clutch job probably needs it anyway. Have at it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3492_1):
Originally posted by UlrichFennec Dude, I learned on mine within a few hours. E30s are stupid easy to learn stick on. The clutches are very forgiving and not very heavy, and besides, any one you find that doesn't have record of a clutch job probably needs it anyway. Have at it. im not worried about learning, i currently started taking lessons. i have 3 more hours left ive currently learned: how to use first gear with no gas how to use first gear with gas and reverse upcoming lessons will be hills , higher gear driving , engine braking its hard finding a 20 year old car that is in usable condition for the right price considering most of them have been junked

ANSWER 3 (id: 3492_3):
E30 318i are great for learning. So far I've had 6 people learn on my mostly daily driver with no ill effects. Also, teaching someone how to drive manual to the point that they can operate safely on their own has never taken more than 45 minutes.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3492_5):
In the future there will be classes for everything certain parents passed on for free. From making your bed to doing laundry, and even how to open doors! The way I've used to teach others is to have them watch my feet/listen as I drive; let them sit in the car while off and row gears/familiarize themselves with the controls; have them start the car, understand how the clutch is important when stopping and let them get a real feel for the throttle of the car while sitting still and only then do we start with first gear driving. From there it's just polishing the skills, and it's really not difficult/shouldn't take long at all. It helps if you show them how fun a manual can be in advance by sliding, doing burnouts and general stupid stuff that they can't do easily in their newer automatic equipped car.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3492_6):
An e30 with a good release bearing is reasonable. You also have to watch out for the sloppy shifter bushings (very common). Not impossible but not nearly as easy as some older Toyota Corolla's etc

ANSWER 6 (id: 3492_8):
Fuck the lessons lol. Just get in a stick shift and start driving around. You'll pick it up quick. I learned on my E30 but it took me a few days because my dad didn't really let me drive it much since I didn't know stick.