QUESTION ID: 1892

QUESTION:
being that original glass sunroof are rare / limited. Anyone ever reach out to a company to make a reproduction?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1892_0):
i don't think there is enough of a market for it now. anyone who really wants one is looking for an original in most cases anyway. a little over a decade ago someone in europe swapped in a vw electric glass sunroof but it was a crazy amount of work and was a rotisserie build. you could easily source e30 parts for the cost and work involved.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1892_1):
Originally posted by 82eye i don't think there is enough of a market for it now. anyone who really wants one is looking for an original in most cases anyway. a little over a decade ago someone in europe swapped in a vw electric glass sunroof but it was a crazy amount of work and was a rotisserie build. you could easily source e30 parts for the cost and work involved. a dude on insagram (Rusty bucket) fit a mini cooper roof onto his sedan. I was thinking a direct drop in panel with stock mounting tabs.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1892_10):
Originally posted by LindrelT And to answer a question I have seen so much mis-information about... I happened to have one of each out so... "What is the weight of an e30 metal sunroof vs. a glass moonroof?" if you ever want to part ways with the glass panel, message me.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1892_2):
Originally posted by vinny.mia a dude on insagram (Rusty bucket) fit a mini cooper roof onto his sedan. I was thinking a direct drop in panel with stock mounting tabs. well it's a bmw sourced mod so i can see it working in theory. i'd be interested in knowing more about it. both vw and bmw source the sunroofs and assorted gear from the same supplier.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1892_3):
Originally posted by 82eye well it's a bmw sourced mod so i can see it working in theory. i'd be interested in knowing more about it. both vw and bmw source the sunroofs and assorted gear from the same supplier. i remember looking up the manufacture to see if they still made the glass roof but they said no

ANSWER 6 (id: 1892_4):
I think most people want to go the opposite route and ditch the sunroof altogether. A composite sunroof delete panel with hardware that doesn't drill through the body and a replacement headliner would be kind of sweet. Knowing how many issues the mini sunroofs have and how expensive they are to fix would make it a hard pass for me.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1892_5):
Originally posted by Northern I think most people want to go the opposite route and ditch the sunroof altogether. A composite sunroof delete panel with hardware that doesn't drill through the body and a replacement headliner would be kind of sweet. Knowing how many issues the mini sunroofs have and how expensive they are to fix would make it a hard pass for me. You know it! I spent $1,200 at the MINI dealer to fix my R56 sunroof, and they couldn't get it working. After the car was long gone and lots of mulling it over, I think the control module was bad. Good advice to avoid any parts coming off a modern MINI.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1892_6):
As far as I remember, the glass sunroof panel was NOT BMW, but a 3rd party. Possibly even sold directly to dealers as a 'dealer installed' option. but that was a long time ago... t

ANSWER 9 (id: 1892_7):
The BMW e30 Glass Moonroof was a USA dealer accessory... in my 1988 brochure it was on page 14 (see pic). Two versions were available - with and without privacy shade (see pic). The parts in the privacy shade version look like the pic of items laid out...

ANSWER 10 (id: 1892_8):
Originally posted by LindrelT The BMW e30 Glass Moonroof was a USA dealer accessory... in my 1988 brochure it was on page 14 (see pic). Two versions were available - with and without privacy shade (see pic). The parts in the privacy shade version look like the pic of items laid out... wow thank for these pictures that super cool ! i wish it was still an option today to buy new

ANSWER 11 (id: 1892_9):
And to answer a question I have seen so much mis-information about... I happened to have one of each out so... "What is the weight of an e30 metal sunroof vs. a glass moonroof?"