QUESTION ID: 2708

QUESTION:
My folks (almost retired), are looking to pick up a 2016-17 X5 X-Drive 3.5i. This would be the 6-cylinder N55 motor with AWD. We've done a lot of reading up on the forums / etc. about these and it looks like the N55 has a pretty good track-record (at least in other models). Have any of you guys/gals owned one before? Or for you BMW techs, have you worked on them before? My parents have a relatively firm budget (all in under $40K), and are looking primarily at CPO cars with their specific color combo of preference (which is pretty hard to come by). This will be replacing a plagued 2002 Volvo XC70 that they bought new ($48K new, worth ~$2K at most now), which has gone through 4 transmissions, and is now finally about to blow a HG (also a total POS with overall build quality). They're hoping to find something that they can own for ~10 years without too many worries. Good choice? Photo of what these look like, for reference.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2708_0):
yea i was not impressed with the 2000s volvos they pretty much had a permanently defective transmission issue with the autos and the VIDA system makes every DIY job a PITA i mean if you have to clear your computer through VIDA to change a rear view mirror thats BS. beautiful cars tho.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2708_1):
I don’t know much about the n55 or the x5. I do think it would be wise to find out the warranty details though. How long is the warranty? What does it cover? Would the warranty give your folks 5 years of carefree ownership if anything does go wrong? My wife has a CPO Ford Escape and the warranty actually has better terms than the new cars get.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2708_10):
Originally posted by Northern I mean, isn't that BMW's new motto? Haha, I wasn’t going to say it. But yeah, I don’t really swoon at any bmw made in the last 10 years. I also respect the opinion that planning to own a newer bmw for 10 years and have it be trouble free might not work out.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2708_11):
Originally posted by justinpirie Also heresy, I’m a big fan of Toyota/Lexus engineering. +1 Considering OP's parents are older (retirement age), I'd strongly suggest checking out the Toyota/Lexus vehicle lineup. Not sure if they enjoyed doing repairs on the Volvo, but the newer BMW's aren't drastically more reliable than the XC70 they owned...just different. Toyota still believes in NA power plants with robust transmissions. OTOH, Honda/Acura seems to have changed to turbo charging many of their vehicles (like the majority of other manufacturers). This is why I believe Toyota is still tops for reliability.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2708_12):
Originally posted by justinpirie I replaced my e53 x5 with a F15 and am really pleased with it. Great car, especially compared to the old xc90 POS. Paid $48k for 28k mile, 3 year old 50 m sport. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Ha - which gen was the Xc90? I’ve always thought the current gen XC90 is a doppelgänger of the F15 X5. Originally posted by nando The N55 is relatively good but I dunno about owning a used, turbo X5 for 10 years. It's going to need something, and it will probably be expensive. True. Given this, I think an extended warranty (or at least something to cover the next 5 or so years) would be ideal. Originally posted by justinpirie Also heresy, I’m a big fan of Toyota/Lexus engineering. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Same here. My daily to the ferry station everyday is an 09 4Runner. I bought it CPO last year with 50K, unicorn last year of the 120 4WD looking practically new). They’ve driven it quite a bit (with the XC routinely out of commission) and like it, but aren’t the biggest fans given the MPG sucks, and it’s not exactly what you’d call lux.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2708_13):
Work on them all the time. Relatively problem free cars just get one that has a good record and if possible a CPO with extended maintenance. Only issues with the N55 is the oil leaks. Eventually it will need the valve cover, oil pan and Oil filter housing done and around 65-70k a set of plugs and injectors the direct injection piezo injectors dont last like conventional injectors do.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2708_2):
Originally posted by kickinindian yea i was not impressed with the 2000s volvos they pretty much had a permanently defective transmission issue with the autos and the VIDA system makes every DIY job a PITA i mean if you have to clear your computer through VIDA to change a rear view mirror thats BS. beautiful cars tho. P2's XC's look great but were built like trash. When the motor/tranny blow again, I want to park it somewhere then when $/time come along, refresh the suspension, interior, and swap in another motor with a manual tranny. Have done some research and a few people in the US have had successful manual swaps. Originally posted by 325e '87 I don’t know much about the n55 or the x5. I do think it would be wise to find out the warranty details though. How long is the warranty? What does it cover? Would the warranty give your folks 5 years of carefree ownership if anything does go wrong? My wife has a CPO Ford Escape and the warranty actually has better terms than the new cars get. The BMW CPO warranty sadly isn't as good as it used to be. Think it's something like 1-year/unlimited miles now. If we go Carmax, I think the optional add-on warranty packages may be better.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2708_3):
I’d say stick to a CPO’d car. BMW’s CPO warranty is pretty good. It covers 90% of mechanical faults. You’ll still have to pay for maintenance items unless it has a maintenance plan. Once the CPO runs it I highly recommend getting easy care or any other type of extended warranty. Mainly because it WILL break at some point and if they maintain it at a dealer or any reputable shop the warranty will pay for itself within two repairs. I’d look for and ask for the maintenance history. Make sure all the oil changes were done on time and or early. When they take ownership have them cut the oil change interval in half ( about 7,000 miles ). This will drastically reduce the chance of oil leaks and internal engine damage. I’m a technician at BMW of Nashville and we see N55 cars leaking or show internal damage to components all the time because of BMW’s long oil service intervals. Other then that just do your normal inspection of your own. Make sure EVERYTHING works, drive it in all conditions ( like you stole it and like you have a newborn in the back seat ). I’d even recommend gettin a pre-sale inspection at a reputable shop. Let me know if you’d like more info then that but honestly they’re a great car when taken care of.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2708_5):
I replaced my e53 x5 with a F15 and am really pleased with it. Great car, especially compared to the old xc90 POS. Paid $48k for 28k mile, 3 year old 50 m sport. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 10 (id: 2708_6):
I know this is heresy on a BMW board, but if they plan to own the vehicle for 10 years, the "worries" and cost of ownership will be a lot less with the Jap brands. That's if they don't mind driving a soul sucking appliance....

ANSWER 11 (id: 2708_8):
I mean, they’ll have a better experience with the X5 than they did with the Volvo. Late N55s are okay. Not amazing, but okay. If they don’t actually like driving the BMW better, they should probably look at an MDX or an RX.