QUESTION ID: 3345

QUESTION:
So i'm not one to get bent out of shape about many things, but last night my light bar was stolen off my car. I cant even imagine how some of you guys have felt for some of the members that have written stories about getting your whole dang houses robbed. My light bar was a gift and it wasn't some kind of name brand rigid industries either so I'm not completely bummed out. It just really sucks that you cant even rely on the idea of anyone having some type of moral code. Plus it's not even worth filing a police report. Shit gets stolen from people all the time in this college town. I feel like cops don't even try. It seemed like they didn't the last time I needed them. I feel for some of you guys that write about stuff like this. Sure my case is nothing compared most, but it still sucks. Short and sweet. /rant Love, T-Money

ANSWER 1 (id: 3345_1):
Id file a report, in the event it starts to happen more where you live. We just had 5 or so cars broken into where I live on friday. Some cars had nothing missing at all, just a mess inside, and broken windows.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3345_2):
I live in a small-ish town dominated by a university, and light bars are stolen frequently. Several friends have had them stolen off of their jeeps. Happened to an old roommate too. People are ruthless.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3345_3):
I have started checking craigslist, but I doubt I'll find it there. I'll probably have more luck just waiting to see if the asshat mounts it on their car around town. It's east to tell if it's mine or not. I put a bead of RTV around the lens to sure no water got inside which in the process bled a little bit and is slightly noticeable if you look hard enough. Maybe filing a police report doesnt hurt anything. I guess if I did find it I could call the cops and rightfully claim my property back even if they guy says he bought it or whatever. I hear about light bars getting stolen off jeeps all the time around here, but I dont feel like i park anywhere sketchy. I stayed at the gfs last night which is park on the size of the street with plenty of light and the neighbors are cool with us. It's probably my fault I didnt use security hardware which I actually had a conversation with my dad about just a couple days ago.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3345_5):
you had a light bar on your e30? i hope you never used it on the street. if you did, it was probably taken by someone you annoyed and thrown in the trash. anyway, i am sorry to hear about your loss.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3345_6):
Originally posted by flyboyx you had a light bar on your e30? i hope you never used it on the street. if you did, it was probably taken by someone you annoyed and thrown in the trash. anyway, i am sorry to hear about your loss. Oh never used on the street. I knew it would piss some people off. There are plenty of bro trucks around here who do though. Just on dark roads with poor lighting, which is often around Auburn and Birmingham.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3345_7):
Small update. Filed a police report yesterday. They said there isnt much they can do since they dont have time to look closely at everyone's light bars, which I figured. I just want the report there just in case I run into it myself. Included all said details I gave in this thread on the report.