QUESTION ID: 2715

QUESTION:
Hey guys I'm going away to college in August and I just be able to work on and drive my E30. Currently I don't drive the car other than pulling it out of the garage to work on my Jeep or Subaru. I want to put the car into a state of long term rest because I doubt ill work on it until this time next year. What do you guys recommend I do to keep things in good shape to let it sit for at least a year?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2715_0):
Use all the gas. In a year it won’t be complete shit, but you get the point. Give her a good detail, use a product that protects all the plastics and rubber pieces. Put a cover on her, but don’t set stuff on it as a lot of people do. Put an air freshener in it. Also put those anti rodent things in the engine bay and near anything electrical. If you’re really crazy you can put some wd40, very light amount, on your rotors to prevent them from rusting over.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2715_10):
Originally posted by mrsleeve This. Infact I would fill the tank and put in the correct amount of stabil in it. As the OP lives in VA anb with the high humidity and variable temps though out the year, thats a good way to get condensation on the inside of the tank and likely into the fuel supply. If its full of gas there is no moisture laden air just sitting in there to cause this issue. I would wash it, pull it in, disconnect the battery leads and put a cover on it I never had a problem, but my garage stays fairly constant (40-60 degrees). This last time was over a year with nothing but a battery tender. It fired right up. actually I need to go wash it now so I can put it back in the garage.. lol.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2715_3):
a year? If it's in a garage, put a cover on it, hook up a battery tender, and it will be fine. I never noticed any problems with gas and I've let it sit for more than a year. I'd change the oil though if it's nearly due.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2715_5):
I store mine for months or a year at a time. My recipe is - Full tank of gas with fuel stabilizer added - Refresh fluids if needed - Remove the battery and/or use a battery tender (depends if you have access to AC power or not where you're parking it) - Put 40# of air in the tires (helps prevent flat spots) - Make sure the emergency brake is not engaged (use a wheel chock if necessary) - Use some small spacers to keep the windshield wipers off the glass - Detail, wax, etc. A year later, reverse the process and enjoy.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2715_7):
Originally posted by nando a year? If it's in a garage, put a cover on it, hook up a battery tender, and it will be fine. I never noticed any problems with gas and I've let it sit for more than a year. I'd change the oil though if it's nearly due. This. Infact I would fill the tank and put in the correct amount of stabil in it. As the OP lives in VA anb with the high humidity and variable temps though out the year, thats a good way to get condensation on the inside of the tank and likely into the fuel supply. If its full of gas there is no moisture laden air just sitting in there to cause this issue. I would wash it, pull it in, disconnect the battery leads and put a cover on it

ANSWER 6 (id: 2715_8):
Originally posted by 101 I store mine for months or a year at a time. My recipe is - Full tank of gas with fuel stabilizer added Agreed. Don't listen to some jokester who'll tell you otherwise. I've been storing mine since the early 00's for up to a year at a time. Always kept the tank full as mentioned above and never had an issue. Gasoline is hygroscopic so it'll absorb water in the tank. Water is your enemy when storing and will lead to all sorts of fuel issues when the car is finally driven (rust ending up in the fuel pump/injectors etc). An added benefit of using stabilizer, is it'll lubricate/coat the top of the cylinders/piston area when you add it a few miles before shutting down. This will help reduce/eliminate the amount of corrosion that may cause sticky rings etc. when you decide to start it.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2715_9):
The amount of times you’ve used my username to make a joke.... I forgot about condensation as I have lived in SoCal my entire life, we never have to deal with cold winters or any moisture issues. I agree with the statements above.