QUESTION ID: 1689

QUESTION:
It doesn’t do it unless I’m actually turning the brightness knob up. They just flicker for a second but otherwise they are fine. Is this normal?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1689_2):
Originally posted by 82eye contact cleaner might help. the used for computers, electronics, etc. So you mean take the switch out that has the dimmer knob and clean that, correct?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1689_3):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy sounds like a dead spot on the dimmer You mean on the dimmer switch in the dash, correct? Or is there a separate relay somewhere?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1689_4):
Originally posted by mjr24 So you mean take the switch out that has the dimmer knob and clean that, correct? you can do that or spray it in place. used to buy and sell 80s/90s stereo equipment, it worked really well on dirty potentiometers etc. i've used it to clean a few car switches over the years as well.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1689_5):
Thanks, will try that tomorrow. I can already tell my new best friend with this car is going to be contact cleaner. Those switches are expensive as hell now….$250. I hate going to realoem to see how cheap a part is supposed to be (I don’t know when their pricing is from?) just to do a google search and see it’s going now for 3-4 times that.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1689_6):
So I did this just now and I feel it’s fixed the issue. I won’t know for sure until it’s dark out. On another note, could this have had some effect on my service indicator lights? When I got the car a few days ago….the second to left green light was not on but the other four were (see picture). I don’t think that’s how it works normally….so I figured I had a burnt out bulb or a bad solder on that second to left LED. However, I noticed today all 5 green ones are lit. Could spraying contact cleaner on that headlight switch have fixed that? I know the dimmer controls the instrument cluster dim, too…..but I don’t think the service indicator lights or the warning lights next to it (brake lining, etc) dim even when you dim the brightness to the lowest setting. Attached Files

ANSWER 6 (id: 1689_7):
Edit: now only 4 are lighting up again with that second to left burnt out. Oh well. On the plus side, I do think the contact cleaner fixed the flickering issue with the dimmer switch.