QUESTION ID: 2556

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, I've been doing some maintenance on my 91' M5 & am struggling to find the special tool needed to depress the buckets in order to check/change out the valve shims. The cheapest I can find this tool is here: https://www.toolsource.com/adjusting...-p-114451.html Does anyone know where I could find this for cheaper? Also, will I need to check the clearances, then order the correct shims online accordingly? Kind of annoying having the car apart then just waiting a few days for parts. I will be doing this along with an ITB synchronization with the carbtune vacuum meter (displays 4 vacuum values at once which is super handy) I know to have the engine stone cold when doing the shim job as well. Thanks in advance!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2556_0):
I bought my tool over a decade ago so I can't help you with the price. Chances are the price has gone up since less people provide this service nowadays. As for the shims, buy an assortment of shims. If you get 5 of the most common sizes (370, 375, 380, 385) and you should be good. You aren't adding shims, you're swapping them so you'll have the same number of shims you started with.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2556_1):
Originally posted by reelizmpro I bought my tool over a decade ago so I can't help you with the price. Chances are the price has gone up since less people provide this service nowadays. As for the shims, buy an assortment of shims. If you get 5 of the most common sizes (370, 375, 380, 385) and you should be good. You aren't adding shims, you're swapping them so you'll have the same number of shims you started with. Looks like I'll have to bite it with the pricing. I know I'm not adding shims, i'm replacing them, I read somewhere that you can use Volvo shims for about 1/4 of the price, but want to make sure I get the correct size...

ANSWER 3 (id: 2556_4):
Originally posted by zadma Is the valve shim device the equivalent for the S38 and S14 ? Tutuapp 9apps Showbox Yes, they are the exact same tool. The two engine's also share the same shim sizes.