QUESTION ID: 1955

QUESTION:
Posting this here because the cosmetics forum is dead and google yielded no useful results. Has anyone here used the aftermarket stock style plastic bumpers garagisitic sells? How is the fit? I'm not looking for show quality just something that looks better than the shattered plastic I have and will look good enough when I restore the car. I have seen pictures of some aftermarket bumper which was like 3/8" too wide to fit correctly but I have no idea the brand or seller. The last thing I bought from garagistic was terrible (DSSR and ball bearing shift joint). I'm down to looking at these because the OE stock I can find is crazy expensive and shipping the used stuff is iffy since you're trusting the seller to package a giant brittle 30 year old piece of plastic so that it won't break in shipping. The last thing I want is to spend $600 on someone's used bumper set and have them biff the shipping and it shows up in 3 pieces.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1955_10):
Wanted to keep you guys informed on this in case anyone is in a similar boat. I wound up buying the aftermarket bumper covers and a lip from Garagistic on black friday. Their website was screwed up apparently and quoted me free shipping for the bumpers and $14 to ship the lip, they contacted me with an additional invoice of $311. This was more than I wanted to pay but a lot cheaper than the CATuned rate in which I was quoted $557 while cross-shopping (with OE Lip, $518 for shipping without a lip). I received the bumpers today (fedex) and they were both in one box with the lip, they fit easily in this 65x7x31 box and the whole deal weighed 20lbs. I got quote using the box weight and dimensions on fedex's site and got a quote of $398 to ship this stuff from garagistic's ZIP to mine. I do not have a fedex account, there's no way CATuned is paying more than my quote to ship, they have a commercial account. I am putting these companies on notice about this shipping stuff. All 3 of these parts were shipped in one box, but the lip made a $39 difference somehow in my CATuned shipping quote? BS. That lip fits in the box with the bumper covers and weighs a couple of pounds. The $557 vs $325 shipping cost (I chose cheapest option in the cart) from two California companies shipping to me? BS. One of them charging me more than my no-account quote using the dimensions and weight of what I received? BS. I will install them when the E34 is out of the garage and post results in my build thread.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1955_11):
I have no say in this game, except I can LTL from FL to CA under 509lb for about $340. Only reason I know this, is because I have shipped m20's for that much.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1955_12):
Even with this current inflation, and time of shipment, I would say $430 would be a stretch. Just go to freightquote and see. I'm usually shipping FedEx.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1955_2):
AFAIK, the Garagistic, CATuned(and Delta Park Auto in Canada), and mr.BodyKitz come from the same source. People have pointed out a few differences to OEM but I don't think any of them would be deal breakers.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1955_3):
have not personally ran those bumpers, but that being said, i've never had anything come from Garagtastic that i ever was happy with. their offerings are cool, but the quality of said offerings just isn't there, sadly. YMMV

ANSWER 6 (id: 1955_4):
Thanks guys. My rear bumper is totally trashed, the front is rough, missing some pieces. One concern I had was that maybe the trim pieces might be fixed (one piece replica bumper) or that the front may not have a removable tow hook plug. Unfortunately CAtuned is out of stock on rear bumpers so they’re a no go unless they get them in soon, because garagistic’s shipping is steep, around $120 more than ECS quotes for the OE parts. That narrows the gap a bit but $410 saved is $410 saved so if these fit fine for a driver, and they’re black so I can run them unpainted until I do the restoration, I am fine with minor differences that aren’t apparent from a normal viewing distance.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1955_5):
Originally posted by varg Thanks guys. My rear bumper is totally trashed, the front is rough, missing some pieces. One concern I had was that maybe the trim pieces might be fixed (one piece replica bumper) or that the front may not have a removable tow hook plug. Unfortunately CAtuned is out of stock on rear bumpers so they’re a no go unless they get them in soon, because garagistic’s shipping is steep, around $120 more than ECS quotes for the OE parts. That narrows the gap a bit but $410 saved is $410 saved so if these fit fine for a driver, and they’re black so I can run them unpainted until I do the restoration, I am fine with minor differences that aren’t apparent from a normal viewing distance. They won't win you any car shows. But they are durable and affordable. My car is a driver and not meant to put away to make money. So for me they work pretty good. I have pictures in my Member Rides thread.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1955_6):
Originally posted by e30austin have not personally ran those bumpers, but that being said, i've never had anything come from Garagtastic that i ever was happy with. their offerings are cool, but the quality of said offerings just isn't there, sadly. YMMV I always give feedback for products. Or at least try to. Garagistics has been pretty good to me. They offer quite a bit and they consistently making parts for a old chassis. I have had some not great things come from them before. But they have always made it right.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1955_7):
I got the full Mtech2 sedan kit minus the wing. I was very happy with the fit and quality when it arrived. I was also very surprised that it wasn't completely mangled as there was basically no packing material in the box. It made it to Ohio basically unscathed regardless so the durability is there. Hope to get the kit painted soon.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1955_8):
Originally posted by varg garagistic’s shipping is steep, I noticed this as well, it was like $1200 USD to ship their 4dr MT2 kit to Canada. I just cry-laughed and closed the tab. I think it was an error though, because I checked again recently and it was less (like $800 iirc?) To be clear, their shipping has always been pretty expensive. My 4dr lacks a rear valence or bumper, so I've been toying with the idea of doing a replica MT2 kit to hide some of the ugly.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1955_9):
Originally posted by Northern I noticed this as well, it was like $1200 USD to ship their 4dr MT2 kit to Canada. I just cry-laughed and closed the tab. I think it was an error though, because I checked again recently and it was less (like $800 iirc?) To be clear, their shipping has always been pretty expensive. My 4dr lacks a rear valence or bumper, so I've been toying with the idea of doing a replica MT2 kit to hide some of the ugly. there's an mt1 rotting at a local shop. it's beyond restoration. i asked the owner if he was breaking and parting and he wouldn't consider anything but selling whole. kind of a dick actually. he's been known to scam for cars sell some out from under legit owners.