QUESTION ID: 2996

QUESTION:
This is a random thread but I know someone here can think of some ideas to help me with my latest project. I have some old school Bride seats that I will be using. There is no kind of spring or cushioning in the seat bottom, so over time your butt will sag. The old school JDM fix was to throw some foam under the bottom cushion to bulk it up. I am trying to figure out a way to add some bottom pad reinforcement, hopefully with flexibility. Similar to how old Recaro seats have the stretch bands underneath. I have approximately one foot square of space to work with. I could just use bungie cords, but wondering if anybody can think of some kind of netting or material I could spread across to spread the butt pressure around. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2996_1):
I ended up scouring Walmart and finding some options. Small bungee cords will work for a quick fix. I also got some elastic banding and metal eyelets with a pressing tool. Something like this will work with a little more effort. It would also work for fixing recaros and others, the main thing is finding wide and strong elastic.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2996_4):
A few years back no one was making these elastic refresh kits for recaro, now there are lots of options. Found a set of 6 on ebay for $28: Pardon Our Interruption... http://www.ebay.com/itm/Recaro-LS-Seat-Base-six-Elastic-Webbing-Straps-BMW-2002-E21-320is-VW-Porsche/192044104944?ssPageName=STRK%3AMEBIDX%3AIT&_trksid=p2057872.m2749.l2649 Looks like there are different widths between 2-3", but none list the length. We'll see soon enough once I get them.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2996_5):
FYI the straps I got have a flaccid length of around 10" and stretch to around 12" or so. I had to buy metal rods and cut and bend it to make clips that go inside and around the loop part, now I have to mount those clips with hog rings to the outer rails then I should be good to go. In the process of doing this I came up with another question. Fabric around a seat cushion should be fully enclosing it sort of like a box around it. How do you do that? You can make a cover but then how do you put it on foam and put attach the bottom side on? A sewing machine won't work. Any thoughts?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2996_7):
I'm glad someone was able to take advantage, I used the term flaccid for a reason ;) Originally posted by roguetoaster O rly? You made that way too easy.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2996_8):
Got the seat back together, and it was a total PITA. I've been doing a lot of work with seats lately and one thing I can say is that it sucks working with hog rings. Even if you have the right tools it takes some experience to do it well. If you were doing this on a recaro it is much easier to replace the straps and brackets, but anything dealing with upholstery, foam or hog rings is a batch.