QUESTION ID: 3017

QUESTION:
Up for sale is my 20170 BMW M2 with the DCT. The car was ordered a year ago and just came in. If you are looking at this ad you know what this car is so I do not need to go into detail. What I do need to say is how this car is different from other M2's. When this car was delivered, the dealer was instructed to not touch the car (no washing, no removing of any shipping covers, etc). The car was then loaded into an enclosed trailer and taken to the Paint Protection installer to have Xpel installed before any road time was put on car. Once the car was there I went down and personally unwrapped the car from its shipping plastics. I then washed the car myself using di-ionized water. The car was washed, then decontaminated with an Iron remover and then washed again, using only the best products as to not put scratches or swirls in the paint. It was then blown dried with Air and moved back inside. Xpel Ultimate Paint protection Film was then applied by one of the top installers in the country, and it shows. The hood, front fenders, front bumper, A Pillars, partial roof, rockers and ¾ or rear fenders we covered. I paid extra to have all corners and edges wrapped where possible so you do not see the lines. The car also got tinted windows, 15% on rear and sides, 50% on front windshield. I then drove the car home myself were I pulled all the wheels, scrubbed the rubber with special cleaner and clear coated the tires. The Rims were decontaminated, clayed and then Cquartz (Ceramic Coating) was applied. The brake calipers were also coated with Cquartz. The Inner fender wells had Reload(Silica Sealant) applied. After tires\rims were treated, I then used a clay bar on any of the painted surfaces that did not get the Xpel PPF. Then next step I polished the paint with Carpro Essence to make the paint as perfect as possible. 2 coats of Cquartz were then applied to the painted areas with no Xpel, and all the areas with Xpel were coated with Capro Reload, a Silica sealant. This makes the car super hydrophobic. Dirt, dust, road grime, pollen, etc will not stick to paint and water rolls right off. The Cquartz a 2-5 yr protection, depending on the cars use and care, while the reload could be 6 months to a year depending on conditions. This car has never sat outside overnight. The car has never been in the rain. Only washed with Di-Ionized Water Options: Black kidney grills - $400 Black fender gills - $200 Painted White front reflectors - $150 Black rear reflectors - $150 Tinted Windows - $500 Xpel PPF - $4000 (Custom Wraped Edges) Cquartz Paint\Wheels - $1400 This car is beyond prefect.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3017_11):
Originally posted by ELVA164 I'd bet he doesn't eat Mexican at all because he would be too nervous it may damage the Xpel™ finish he applied to his GI tract. Maybe he only uses a toilet with de-ionozed water

ANSWER 2 (id: 3017_12):
Originally posted by Julien Maybe he only uses a toilet with de-ionozed water Would a guy like this even use a toilet ? Originally posted by parkerbink How much is he asking? $61,300. I have no idea what these cost

ANSWER 3 (id: 3017_4):
Finally read thru it... my hypothesis, seller believe himself/herself to be OCD but unable to maintain level of compulsiveness on a car they need to drive. An exercise in futility.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3017_6):
Where the fuck did this come from? Perhaps he could spend less time obsessing on his car and more on grammar and sentence structure. Also, semi FIXED. Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Up for sale is my 2017 BMW M2 with the DCT. The car was ordered a year ago and just came in. If you are looking at this ad you know what this car is so I do not need to go into detail. What I do need to say is how this car is different from other M2's. When this car was delivered, the dealer was instructed to not touch the car (no washing, no removing of any shipping covers, etc). The car was then loaded into an enclosed trailer and taken to the Paint Protection installer to have Xpel installed before any road time was put on car. Once the car was there I went down and personally unwrapped the car from its shipping plastics. I then washed the car myself using di-ionized water. The car was washed, then decontaminated with an Iron remover and then washed again, using only the best products as to not put scratches or swirls in the paint. It was then blown dried with Air and moved back inside. Xpel Ultimate Paint protection Film was then applied by one of the top installers in the country, and it shows. The hood, front fenders, front bumper, A Pillars, partial roof, rockers and ¾ or rear fenders we covered. I paid extra to have all corners and edges wrapped where possible so you do not see the lines. The car also got tinted windows, 15% on rear and sides, 50% on front windshield. I then drove the car home myself were I pulled all the wheels, scrubbed the rubber with special cleaner and clear coated the tires. The Rims were decontaminated, clayed and then Cquartz (Ceramic Coating) was applied. The brake calipers were also coated with Cquartz. The Inner fender wells had Reload(Silica Sealant) applied. After tires\rims were treated, I then used a clay bar on any of the painted surfaces that did not get the Xpel PPF. Then next step I polished the paint with Carpro Essence to make the paint as perfect as possible. 2 coats of Cquartz were then applied to the painted areas with no Xpel, and all the areas with Xpel were coated with Capro Reload, a Silica sealant. This makes the car super hydrophobic. Dirt, dust, road grime, pollen, etc will not stick to paint and water rolls right off. The Cquartz a 2-5 yr protection, depending on the cars use and care, while the reload could be 6 months to a year depending on conditions. This car has never sat outside overnight. The car has never been in the rain. Only washed with Di-Ionized Water Options: Black kidney grills - $400 Black fender gills - $200 Painted White front reflectors - $150 Black rear reflectors - $150 Tinted Windows - $500 Xpel PPF - $4000 (Custom Wraped Edges) Cquartz Paint\Wheels - $1400 This car is beyond prefect.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3017_9):
Originally posted by Julien i wonder if he's ever eaten mexican before driving the car I'd bet he doesn't eat Mexican at all because he would be too nervous it may damage the Xpel™ finish he applied to his GI tract.