QUESTION ID: 1154

QUESTION:
I checked out this 1988 M3 today, and I wanted to see how much r3v would value this car at. It isn't for sale, but I left a note on his windshield. Its a 1988 grey/red m3 in ok and stock condition. 140k miles and mechanically sound (not pristine) and he owned it since 1997 with 80k. He has most service records but doesn't know how many owner. Paint needs a bit of work, but its not faded or shot like most cars this age. No ellipsoids or anything fancy. Badly cracked dashboard, leather looks rough, and wheels are stock. Muffler looks aftermarket, but rather than that, everything looks stock. What do you think?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1154_10):
How do you guys all know that the clear is shot or even damaged from that pic? It's extremely hard to tell if that's peeling clear or just dirt or dust. Also, 140k isn't an especially small amount of miles for an s14.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1154_4):
yet, it isn't for sale? or is it? I don't quite follow. As far as I'm concerned the clear is shot on the rear bumper and most likely the spoiler and front bumper as well. A full respray is probably in order by now. By the looks of it, the exterior is neglected as well as the interior by how you described it. Mileage is pretty low though. With no rust, clean title and good compression, I'd say it was a 10-12K car. Kinda hard to ask for more when it's clearly been neglected. Looks like a nice platform for a restoration.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1154_5):
The car is not officially up for sale, but he seem to be interested at the right price. I was "that guy" and left a note on his window today. I got a call later and he gave me some quick information. Ill probably check it out next Sunday and do a thorough inspection. Originally posted by ak- Did he sound like an enthusiast, or just a guy with a car? It's up to you what you can snag it for. Not really. He owned it since 1997, so seems like average joe wanting a fairly decent m3 at the time. I just want to see how much I should value this car at. And yes id like to snatch it. Originally posted by mattdk318i id say if you walked up to him with 8-10k cash you could own it. Just hope its not a basketcase. I am not too familiar with the term basketcase, but it does have basketweaves. Condition of this car is not pristine. Just normal 24 yrs of wear. Originally posted by reelizmpro yet, it isn't for sale? or is it? I don't quite follow. As far as I'm concerned the clear is shot on the rear bumper and most likely the spoiler and front bumper as well. A full respray is probably in order by now. By the looks of it, the exterior is neglected as well as the interior by how you described it. Mileage is pretty low though. With no rust, clean title and good compression, I'd say it was a 10-12K car. Kinda hard to ask for more when it's clearly been neglected. Looks like a nice platform for a restoration. Clearcoat is rough, but I think paint might be salvageable (just maybe). It looks be a southern car most (if not all) of its life considering all the sun damage and no surface rust on car that looks to have original paint. Thanks for the ball-park . I want to get a good deal on it, but I don't want to scare him away either.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1154_6):
I'm not an expert on E30 M3's, but I'd suspect that an unmolested example with that mileage and only cosmetic defects would bring north of $10K. Perhaps a fair bit north.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1154_7):
Looking at that pic, the rear muffler is needing new hangers, if the clearcoat is shot, you have no other alternative but to repaint the whole car. I'll also bet the rear suspension bushings are all shot, or at least tired. If you can get it for about $13K, it might not be a bad deal, but expect to drop another $5-7K on bringing things up to spec on the car. (I'm not including a paint job in that either. Paint will be $5k easy.) If no rust and the motor is healthy, I'd say go for it. Look at it this way, the way the M3 prices are going, if you buy it for say $13K, put $10K (Not that it will necessarily need that much) you will still be able to sell the car for what you have into it, if not more. Will

ANSWER 6 (id: 1154_8):
I strongly beg to differ from these folks. To buy it for 13k, and stick another 10k into expecting the resale value to be at 23k, is asking a bit much. It takes a very strong and clean example to pull over 20k in this market. I wouldn't pay over 10k. But as it stands, it could easily pull 10k.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1154_9):
Originally posted by MJCRO 10 to 15K easily. Exactly. If M3's in that condition were 10k I would be buying all of them. Seriously. I paid 11k for mine and Im in the middle of a full resto.