QUESTION ID: 1668

QUESTION:
Hey Everyone, I know we're all getting annoyed with these System Errors that were experiencing on the daily. What Im asking you to do is to reach out to James Crivellone on either Facebook, or Instagram and ask him to try and fix it. Once you do, please hit the poll and LMK that you've done so. This will give me an idea of how many people are active and helping out. This benefits us all, and we'll someday have a trouble free r3v

ANSWER 1 (id: 1668_10):
Originally posted by McGyver Welcome back, and thanks for keeping this site alive and functioning for so many years! Yep, I do keep an eye on the backend, just don't really post much these days.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1668_11):
Originally posted by James Crivellone Yep, I do keep an eye on the backend, just don't really post much these days. Wish you’d share some of the cool cars you’re working on… we post all kinds of stuff now… cars, truck, supposedly there’s a boat or two

ANSWER 3 (id: 1668_13):
Originally posted by 2mAn Wish you’d share some of the cool cars you’re working on… we post all kinds of stuff now… cars, truck, supposedly there’s a boat or two Lemme try and stabilize this place first, but once done yeah I'll showcase the collection.. its grown a ton over the last years. Latest Project.. Sat in a field from 2008 - 2024. Full mechanical restoration. Great car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1668_3):
There’s a r3v discord?… I just posted hoping to get a screen grab for you James Crivellone but it didn’t work (typical tech non-replicating scenario right?.) However, the posts are also taking very long.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1668_4):
Originally posted by James Crivellone Hi! Screenshot errors please! Thanks for the ping /e30 discord gang Welcome back, and thanks for keeping this site alive and functioning for so many years!

ANSWER 6 (id: 1668_5):
r/e30 discord is a gongshow because it's basically a group chat with hundreds of people in it. Site is running way better, not sure what you did, but thank you James!

ANSWER 7 (id: 1668_6):
Originally posted by 2mAn There’s a r3v discord?… Yep! I’m a pretty active member and a lot of the younger crowd is on it. You should join and take a look sometime! You can find a join link on r/E30 on Reddit, but I can post one here if you’d like.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1668_8):
Originally posted by cyckl Also—pages load quickly now but I’m still experiencing heavy latency when posting. Just wanted to add to previous reports. Testing