QUESTION ID: 2994

QUESTION:
Bought some stuff there more that a week ago. No shipping, no answering phone calls, no answering emails....no answering PayPal emails......? Anyone knows what is going on? I bought e36 steering rack kit there a year ago and had no issues. This time.....not so lucky. Money are now tied up in PayPal dispute so I have to wait awhile to repurchase from a different vendor...Sucks..

ANSWER 1 (id: 2994_10):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars He did that actually and you could hear the whining all the way in Bavaria lol e30tech is up... it was just dead for a long time due to neglect/inattention.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2994_11):
Originally posted by JimmyP How do fucking people operate like that? Either close shop if you can't handle it,,,, or don't,,, and provide what you are selling like a fucking adult. Blows my mind. My thoughts exactly. Pathetic.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2994_3):
finally was able to get a hold of Chris. He couldn't sell me what I bought for the price listed on his website due to prices going up. I get it...no big deal. I wish he would have emailed me right away instead of me calling and waiting for 10 days just to find out I have to reorder it somewhere else. Oh well

ANSWER 4 (id: 2994_5):
How do fucking people operate like that? Either close shop if you can't handle it,,,, or don't,,, and provide what you are selling like a fucking adult. Blows my mind.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2994_7):
Originally posted by LowR3V'in he should close down his broken down dead forum as well. He did that actually and you could hear the whining all the way in Bavaria lol

ANSWER 6 (id: 2994_8):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars He did that actually and you could hear the whining all the way in Bavaria lol Because aside from being a dead forum there is tons of good writes up on there that can help people through the process of their builds. Not saying r3v doesn’t have any but seems like there is/was more on the tech. I know when it got brought back people started archiving the main write ups and uploading them here.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2994_9):
I'm well aware of the value of e30techs content as much as I'm aware that I still can't post there. Photobuckets BS impacted me more but it is what it is and life goes on.