QUESTION ID: 816

QUESTION:
Here you go fucks. THis is what I did today in less than an hr. part #s posted at a later date REmove cover undo straps to the blower motor. Helps if you have picks to fit into the holes on the straps. So you dont break them heres the power wires can use pic to undo the clip. Has a small hole to poke into. Note the resister is located just below the blower motor. It kinda just slides in underneath. Not really shown in this pic removed blower motor wo issues. heres now. Installation is the same way. new resister compared to old back of resister and how it plugs in LOOK at where the clip attaches at the back. On my car the clip attached ABOVE the metal strip. Other cars have the clip attaching to the metal strip. If its in the proper place, then you are SUPPOSED TO be able to secure the clip with your hands.

ANSWER 1 (id: 816_0):
yeah, once you know how the clip attaches its pretty easy and it goes right back in. I had more problems getting the clip off than back on. Im installing my newer blower motor as soon as it gets here in the mail, i'll probably eat my words on this one, lol.

ANSWER 2 (id: 816_10):
Originally posted by nando that clip was the easy part. My issue was the 325ix engine sits about an inch closer to the firewall - getting the blower motor in there with the intake manifold in the way was not easy. I had to practically smash the thing to squease it through there. Not a 30 minute job at all in my case. Next time I'll remove the intake manifold.. Another benefit to the 24v swap--you can pull the IM in like 20 minutes. :p

ANSWER 3 (id: 816_11):
Originally posted by Ceeker most 318's have a 3 spd fan. 325's 318is' have 4 sp resistors. note on the pic the resistor has 4 prongs. mine is a 4-speed. ;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 816_2):
New to the forum. 1989 320i. German specs. I'm having all sorts of problems with my blower motor not turning on at all. I've replaced the fuse for it. Replaced the motor itself and pulled my hair out. I've looked for the resistor that everyone keeps talking about, but it is not there. I don't have two straps holding the blower covers down. They are plastic and there is one for each side and they are two pieces. So I can't find the resistor to try cleaning it. Does anyone have any ideas? It sucks when you have ice on the inside of you windows.

ANSWER 5 (id: 816_3):
I should note this is for a 1991 325i. It really depends on the car as to which blower motor is in your car. I know for the e30m3 there are plastic covers instead of the straps in this writeuo in which case check out the m3 minor rust repair thread

ANSWER 6 (id: 816_5):
Originally posted by ///M42 sport there are so many people giving misinformation. Changing the blower motor should take 30 min max. There is nothing hard about it. that clip was the easy part. My issue was the 325ix engine sits about an inch closer to the firewall - getting the blower motor in there with the intake manifold in the way was not easy. I had to practically smash the thing to squease it through there. Not a 30 minute job at all in my case. Next time I'll remove the intake manifold..

ANSWER 7 (id: 816_9):
Originally posted by freeride53 ^ is it any different on a 318i? most 318's have a 3 spd fan. 325's 318is' have 4 sp resistors. note on the pic the resistor has 4 prongs.