QUESTION ID: 2906

QUESTION:
While driving around town Came across a clean 325e for sale with 200k. How much are straight no rust,manuals in good condition worth? Everything supposedly works minor cracks in dash Interior is fair for age I would obviously rather have an "i", but it seems like clean title coupe manuals are becoming more and more rare? Is it worth it to buy an e or wait for an i? $4000obo

ANSWER 1 (id: 2906_10):
Aluminum Bumper 325e I purchased a bone stock 1987 4 door 325e automatic last year off the San Diego Craigslist for $2,100. There were no cracks in the dash and the interior is in very good condition for how old the car is. There is a very small amount of body damage to the rear quarter panel but no rust that I have seen. I have put over $1,000 in rubber parts replacing the auto trans lines, fuel lines, rad hoses, air hoses, belts and all the suspension/sway bushings and tie rods. It needed a refreshed steering rack as well ($180). Driveshaft rebuild is next at $350 that will bring the total close to $3,500. They had a receipt for the timing belt done 35k mi earlier so that was a pleasant surprise, between that and the crack free dash I was giddy. Good luck

ANSWER 2 (id: 2906_11):
I have an 86 eta and I love it. On Sunday though I bought a 90 325i for $3500 the interior is a little shabby and some small stuff to sort out but it has no rust, rebuilt trans and bilsten/H&r, lsd, plastic bumpers, 16” wheels with 205’s, Jim comforti chip, and an amp pioneer deck and focal speakers... seems like too good to pass up. But so now I am going to sell my eta, it has rust holes in wheel wells which I’m going to fix, but the interior is cherry and most everything works and has a new clutch last year. I’m going to sell it to someone already lined up for 3k

ANSWER 3 (id: 2906_3):
Imho, cracked dash, interior that needs work with a good body would be 4K or less. I paid 5k for an 87e manual but the interior is mint, no cracks in the dash, in the seats, and everything works. The eta cars drive really nicely and get very good mileage. If you think you’re really going to be an enthusiast it’s worth getting and fixing up and drive it. Some day in the future your second e30 can be a racy i.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2906_4):
Originally posted by steelynorm If all checks out what's a fair price? Everything is subjective, so it's really the relative value as compared to what you think it should be worth.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2906_6):
Re: Going to go on a small rant. Buyer:how is the dash? Seller: good couple of small cracks. Buyer: so how is the instrument cluster? Seller: tripmeter is not my working but odometer works. BUYER: SPEEDOMETER TACh etc work? Seller: yes Buyer: AC work? SELLER: YES BUYER: ok great I will come look at it..... I buy cars on Craigslist for myself my family and still am amazed at people. Dash had several cracks across the width of the dash. Test drive temperature gauge is not registering.. Wth A.c. is not blowing cold! Buyer: temp gauge is not working? Seller: sometimes it does not work. Buyer:a.c. is not getting cold, it does not work? Seller: well it would if u recharge it. Buyer: u had a receipt for the clutch... Seller: must have left it with the other paperwork I don't have it here now Exasperating at times dealing with Craigslist people So no I did not buy it, car rode okay but not worth the money.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2906_9):
The older I get the more I realize that things just work themselves out with some patience and motivation. Keep looking, the right car will find you. It took me a year to find and buy my two gems.