QUESTION ID: 2539

QUESTION:
I have been having quite the time finding a good Getrag 260 for my e30. I have bought three transmissions so far and all of them have had some issue that keeps them from shifting well. It seems like all of the good transmissions out there have been bought up. My poor e30 is once again up on jack stands with no transmission in it. Would it be worth continuing the painful search for a good one or find someone that would rebuild it? If anyone has a lead on a good Getrag 260, I am willing to come get it.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2539_1):
Originally posted by 325irh89 I have bought three transmissions so far and all of them have had some issue that keeps them from shifting well. You certain it's an issue with the trans and not the bushings? Also, has anyone had luck with the BMW rebuilds? are they any better than the rebuilds offered by reputable shops like Metric Mechanic? Even with a rebuild, i hear and read of the transmissions not performing to "new" standards (i.e. the famous Getrag "rattle" not going away-also documented on the MM site as well).

ANSWER 2 (id: 2539_10):
Originally posted by Vincenze Cheers! its been a few years since i looked, I also found this one. its in russian(?) but you get the idea. his guy uses some percussive maintenance to get it out, i think id rather tuse that puller/pusher system. doesn't seem that hard at all, although if it doesn't move i guess the bolt holes that hold that contraption to the bell housing could crack. Let me see if i can track down my busted gearbox and give it a go..... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tuC0Ibqqd and this one is good too https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UMekO4GlTRE

ANSWER 3 (id: 2539_11):
Originally posted by e30davie Is anyone aware of a how to on splitting the getrag 260 case? I spoke to 3 or 4 gearbox shops near me that wouldn't touch it as they were afraid of breaking the case trying to get it apart. Interesting you've had that experience. Given the Getrag 260 also came in Holden Commodores up until 2005 I'd have thought that transmission rebuilders wouldn't be particularly scared of them. Have often wondered how compatible the Holden version of the gearbox is & whether you could swap the case + output flange to adapt them to the BMWs? They're readily available reconditioned for reasonable money, the ratios are virtually identical, and Holden used them up until 2005, so you can get a much newer gearbox than an e30 / e34. For our US friends - Holden ran the G260 in Australia behind their version of the venerable Buick 3.8L V6. eg. Ebay listing EDIT: Out of curiosity had a look at a few more images of the Holden box and found an interesting casting on the rear shot... Do I spy a roundel on the rear case of the box?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2539_12):
I looked into this a while back when trying to get a manual in a w211 e430. Instead the owner had us put in a Tremec to match the ls1... Getrag - Wikipedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getrag_260_transmission Note: While some of the internal components may be interchangeable, GM units (transmissions from Holden and Cadillac cars) are not interchangeable with those from BMW cars. Two distinct versions of the integral bellhousing were used by BMW, depending on the associated engine (either a BMW M20 or BMW M30), with additional minor variations to accommodate different flywheels and engine management systems. But it is Wiki, so. (?)

ANSWER 5 (id: 2539_13):
Originally posted by e30davie Is anyone aware of a how to on splitting the getrag 260 case? I spoke to 3 or 4 gearbox shops near me that wouldn't touch it as they were afraid of breaking the case trying to get it apart. I've rebuilt a getrag. its not fun. to split the case I used a giant puller from snap on I have the part number for it somewhere. you will also need a good hydraulic press my 20 ton from HF didn't even work to split the gears off the main shaft to get to the synchros. getting it all back together is PITA as far as I'm concerned.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2539_2):
Is anyone aware of a how to on splitting the getrag 260 case? I spoke to 3 or 4 gearbox shops near me that wouldn't touch it as they were afraid of breaking the case trying to get it apart.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2539_3):
I’m certain its not the bushings. Ive replaced the bushings with new poly bushings along with new engine mounts. The first transmission I would not go into second. The next one I bought had an issue where it would pop out of fifth gear. The most recent one I bought made really loud bearing when it was in neutral. Ive replaced my pilot bearing and throw out bearing to eliminate any sort of issue, but I know it has been the transmission I have bought.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2539_4):
All Getrag's inherently rattle in neutral AFAIK. If you Google "Getrag rattle" you will see posts from all kinds of cars from 240's to dump trucks. It worsens the lighter the flywheel - hence why BMW went to dual mass. Popping out of 5th is usually a detent, which is easily serviceable with hand tools (#15, 15, 16): https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=23_1096 Which is under this cap (#27): https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=23_1095 And any transmission shop that wouldn't touch a Getrag probably is a place that primarily works on autos. It's not rocket science: https://www.eeuroparts.com/blog/getr...rt-1-teardown/

ANSWER 9 (id: 2539_5):
Originally posted by e30davie Is anyone aware of a how to on splitting the getrag 260 case? I spoke to 3 or 4 gearbox shops near me that wouldn't touch it as they were afraid of breaking the case trying to get it apart.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2539_6):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird And any transmission shop that wouldn't touch a Getrag probably is a place that primarily works on autos. It's not rocket science: https://www.eeuroparts.com/blog/getr...rt-1-teardown/ His attempt wasn't successful in the end. Getrag 260 Synchro Replacement, Part 3: Reassembly – eEuroparts https://www.eeuroparts.com/blog/getrag-260-synchro-replacement-part-3-reassembly/ eEuroparts.com is the premier supplier of European auto parts for SAAB, BMW, Volvo, VW, Audi, Mercedes, and other European car brands. Since 2000. "So it worked fine, meaning I put it all back together ok, but it would still grind. It turns out my new synchros from BMW were not round. Still working on a solution for this."

ANSWER 11 (id: 2539_8):
Originally posted by Vincenze His attempt wasn't successful in the end. https://www.eeuroparts.com/blog/getr...-3-reassembly/ "So it worked fine, meaning I put it all back together ok, but it would still grind. It turns out my new synchros from BMW were not round. Still working on a solution for this." The link wasn't intended to show that "someone" could rebuild it, but the fact that a home-garage mechanic did something that "transmission shops" say they can't. I have brought Getrags to places to have them pulled apart to see if they were worth fixing. But that was many-many years ago. At the time were e30's everywhere in wrecking yards, so spending several hundo on syncros/shafts etc, a used box was $80 at U-Pull. Drivegear used to rebuild them, installed a few. Once had an issue, they warrantied it, then the client broke that one about 4 races later - they broke 2 shifters in that amount of time...have a feeling the gearbox was fine, and they were abusing it. There is no super-secret voo-doo magic that makes them any different, aside from the raw cost/rarity of the parts. The biggest thing that kills our boxes is running them low on fluid and/or wrong fluid. Client brought his e36 in that was grinding badly. Come to find out he used regular gl5 gear oil and it ate the yellow metals in the syncros. Our race car killed 3 before we realized that the vent would spit fluid under hard braking, eventually making it low during the race and they fail in short order (12-24hr races). Watched another e30 do the very same thing it two races ago. A simple hose on the vent up into the strut tower area has made this box last the last ~3yr(?) I have saved all the boxes that our and client race cars have broken - there's about 6 or 8 of them in the back of the shop. Figure one day will break them down and mix-match the parts to make a few good ones. A local shop has taken over where Drivegear left off. I have not personally used their box, but know the owners and they stand behind their products... https://www.condorspeedshop.com/prod...=8242851414062

ANSWER 12 (id: 2539_9):
I wish they were local, shipping a trans to CA and back has to be an extra $200 each way. If anyone knows of a shop in the MD/VA/PA area that rebuilds g260s, please let me know.