QUESTION ID: 1688

QUESTION:
I see most BMW forums are blowing up about the G20 reveal - mostly with ridiculous rants about BMW losing their way seeing as no one has driven a G20 yet to see whether it's a 'real' 3 or not! What do people make of it? I think the new grille is interesting in that although it's enormous, it nods back to the e21 and e30 when the kidneys were actually connected into one grille. As usual with the 'moderns', it seems to need the m-tech kit to look good. On R3v we've had no interest at all... I have to admit that I don't feel that excited about a 3 series that's as big as an e38, with no manual transmission available in most markets! Maybe the next 2 series will be the one for enthusiasts.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1688_0):
Stylistically I think it's a good one, a nice balance of muscular and sleek without feeling compromised. Being a modern upscale car I am sure it will drive nicely (depending on the tires of course), and it will get decent mileage, while providing a nice place to sit. Will it be engaging, interesting, or fun? Who knows, and it really doesn't matter all that much as modern cars are generally so competent to drive it's hard to differentiate one from the other.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1688_1):
I was aware that a new 3er was coming out, and that the manual trans is gone, but that is about the extent of it. I won't be buying one, no one I know will be buying one in the next 10 years, the closest I will get to one is in a parking lot so I don't have much motivation to be interested. It's not a bad looking car, but cost regardless it appears too large and luxurious for my own tastes. Were this thread not specifically about 3-series I would have assumed I am looking at a photo of a 5. Admittedly I don't really consider myself a "BMW guy" though, just that '70s-80s BMWs happen to really fit within my specific tastes.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1688_10):
The way the kidneys and headlights meet is a nice return to form, and I like how the hood reaches all the way forward instead of there being a panel separation like the F30 has. Beyond that I don't like the design at all. It's too big and bloated. There's nothing German about it; from the side it could be mistaken for any Honda, Toyota, Lexus, Nissan, Mazda... I pretty much don't like the interior of any new car these days because of all the screens everywhere and the g20 is no different. The only g20 I'll ever want is an Infiniti p10 sport...

ANSWER 4 (id: 1688_11):
It’d be cool if they made a car with bumpers for a change. These bloated front body covers are so overdone. I’m so happy that my car is in my garage. And to the “it doesn’t look German” comment? Spot on. It’s just another shape that people guide down the road.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1688_12):
Interesting note on the grilles and hood extension over previous late models. My main issue with the exterior is the bulbous-ness and the fake bodyline rake. It's got angry headlights and a nice front clip, and then things get too fat and raised in the rear for it to be taken seriously. The 2 series is the closest thing to the original mission of the 3 series, but they can honestly keep those cars too imo. BMWs are just cars now... plebian, no personality, not made for drivers who are interested in driving, like an e30 owner is. It's not going to change, business is business and this is the future. I wouldn't want any of these new models if you offered me one for free. Sent from my moto g(6) using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 1688_5):
Originally posted by JimmyP e30 content? Yes, there are parts in common, at least 0.2%! If they actually offer it in the US it will be neat to finally see a plain, fast 325e and not the way it would be released in the US as an ///M Performance Intelligent 325e xDrive Sport Active Four Door Coupe.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1688_7):
It is not even worth mentioning a manual trans every time we start a thread about "new" BMW 2/3/4/5/6 series. These cars are so much loaded with technology (or junk if you prefer future tense) that 90% of the car is anything but manual. Fake visuals, fake sound, fake experience and lastly we have enough fake people who will make great fake drivers.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1688_9):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Yes, there are parts in common, at least 0.2%! Maybe more in the future once a few get to the wreckers and people begin pilfering parts for their restomod e30 projects :) Yep - agree with everyone's comments. I think it looks fine despite all the e46 & e90 fanbois chucking a fit. Hopefully it sells up a storm so that BMW can afford to continue offering more e30 parts!