QUESTION ID: 2165

QUESTION:
Any one have an idea where this leak is coming from? Its super slow, maybe a drop every 3 days. The interior is super dry. I cleaned the engine bay and around all the lines and drain and fluid still leaks out of that drain hole.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2165_0):
What does the fluid smell, look and feel like? Where along the frame rail is it? Post pic w/t wider frame for reference. Your choices are oil, ATF (power steering), condensation, or coolant

ANSWER 2 (id: 2165_1):
Originally posted by Gk-89E30 What does the fluid smell, look and feel like? Where along the frame rail is it? Post pic w/t wider frame for reference. Your choices are oil, ATF (power steering), condensation, or coolant honestly looks like brake fluid or oil it’s amberish in color

ANSWER 3 (id: 2165_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro The only thing that is even remotely in that area is the brake/clutch fluid. I had a leak at the plastic elbow on the clutch master that would drip slowly and absorbed through the carpet before and eventually out of the frame rail before I found it. I did notice I was losing brake fluid but it was so slow I didn't think much of it. If it's not your clutch master, it could also be the brake master leaking into the booster or the lines, or the fitting to the clutch slave cylinder. I have a feeling it’s a fluid leak in the booster since that goes through the firewall but my brakes don’t feel spongy at all

ANSWER 4 (id: 2165_12):
Originally posted by AmosCake Is there a drain there that would lead to the frame rail hole where my leak is coming out of? No, just if it runs down the firewall and onto the frame rail.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2165_2):
just based off how bad the paint looks around it, I imagine it's brake fluid. Could be a leak from the brake or clutch master cyls, either dripping down the inside of the firewall or the outside.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2165_3):
Originally posted by Northern just based off how bad the paint looks around it, I imagine it's brake fluid. Could be a leak from the brake or clutch master cyls, either dripping down the inside of the firewall or the outside. I wish it were that simple. I checked the master and its dry as an old lady's cooch.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2165_4):
it could be coming from anywhere and following the rail down to the lowest point. check the brake lines including the hard lines along the rail. sometimes a rubber line will sweat before it gives out completely, they'll do it for quite some time. you want to check the hard lines to eliminate the possibility of corrosion / rust damage.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2165_5):
Originally posted by 82eye it could be coming from anywhere and following the rail down to the lowest point. check the brake lines including the hard lines along the rail. sometimes a rubber line will sweat before it gives out completely, they'll do it for quite some time. you want to check the hard lines to eliminate the possibility of corrosion / rust damage. Thats what I figured but the it’s not coming from either side If that makes sense. Like it’s not wet before or after that hole. The hard lines are also on right side of the rail. The leak is coming straight form that hole.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2165_6):
Originally posted by Northern just based off how bad the paint looks around it, I imagine it's brake fluid. Could be a leak from the brake or clutch master cyls, either dripping down the inside of the firewall or the outside. Question, can there be fluid leaking from between the inside and outside firewall? I removed the carpet and its all dry

ANSWER 10 (id: 2165_8):
The only thing that is even remotely in that area is the brake/clutch fluid. I had a leak at the plastic elbow on the clutch master that would drip slowly and absorbed through the carpet before and eventually out of the frame rail before I found it. I did notice I was losing brake fluid but it was so slow I didn't think much of it. If it's not your clutch master, it could also be the brake master leaking into the booster or the lines, or the fitting to the clutch slave cylinder.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2165_9):
Originally posted by Northern Could be between the firewall and the thick insulation mat on the engine bay side of the firewall if your car still has that. Is there a drain there that would lead to the frame rail hole where my leak is coming out of?