QUESTION ID: 2641

QUESTION:
Hi Everyone, My Suspension are shot and needs to be replaced, I've done a bit of Research and Saved up my money and decided coils, Ready to Purchase either GC, CAtune, or BCracing any suggestions on where i can get the best deal? This is my daily driver and not overly concerned about the stiff ride as the goal is to track the car couple times a year. Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 2641_0):
Bc or GC (maybe megan if some wants to pipe up). CA tuned is supposedly just rebranded BC coilovers and are more expensive. Theres a thread on here show casing they even have the same stickers from the factory. If money is no option I hear GC is the best of those, if you want to go low and have a good ride BCs I hear are great. I have no personal experience with any but am going to buy BC soon.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2641_1):
I have heard similar things as Slybean. I am planning to get BCs soon, too since GCs are just too expensive. Anyone know what spring rates would be good to be fairly low? Not lip to fender but low.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2641_2):
I had CA on my e36 and i will be buying BC for my e30. the CA coilovers where amazing but i had some issues with customer service shall we say so i wouldn't be purchasing another set of them. was told they would be with me in 2 weeks. heard nothing at all. they arrived 4 months later and looked like someone launched them off the top of a mountain. my vote goes for BC coilovers as you have tons of options and if you have any issues down the line with them i heard the customer service is amazing and also they do every single part if just one bit was to fail you don't need to replace the entire system. a good product is one thing, how the company treats you once they have your money is a completely different story. edit - This was back in 2015, i don't want to badmouth CA Tuned in any way shape of form, i am sure mine may have just been an off case and the fact that i am in England, a long way from Sacramento, California could have been a factor too. but i just wanted to share my experience on the matter.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2641_3):
You get what you pay for... why are you intent on getting coilovers? All the cheaper ones are the same Chinese made BS, while Ground Control is quality made here in the Good Ol USA... Might as well get H&R Race Springs with an adjustable Koni

ANSWER 5 (id: 2641_4):
Unless you are regularly adjusting the ride hight it is a wast of money, in reality they get set once and that is it. Bilstein shocks and good quality springs at your desired hight would be my choice. Replacing all the rubber bushes with original type that way the ride is still good and inner and outer steering rack joints then sway bar links is where the control and stability come from.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2641_5):
Originally posted by NZM3 Unless you are regularly adjusting the ride hight it is a wast of money, in reality they get set once and that is it. Bilstein shocks and good quality springs at your desired hight would be my choice. Replacing all the rubber bushes with original type that way the ride is still good and inner and outer steering rack joints then sway bar links is where the control and stability come from. thanks guys, I really appreciate the comments, I've been searching the webs long and hard, comparing cost, function, and still undecided.