QUESTION ID: 3514

QUESTION:
I bought a two door, 5 speed eta last summer. I loved that car so much and it was a blast to drive. It was recently totaled by a distracted high schooler who was on her phone. I was stopped and, she was going about 15 to 20 mph. It was totaled because the motor mounts were worn, which allowed the engine to move and crack my oil pan. I've been looking for a late model 325i, which I have the money for. The only problem is my dad (I'm 17) thinks they're too unsafe and is strongly against me getting another one. I have done extensive research on the safety of these cars, and I've found that although they aren't as safe as a newer car, they're not nearly as bad as he thinks. Do you guys have any convincing arguments to help me plead my case? I love these cars and would be devastated if I couldn't get another one. -Matt

ANSWER 1 (id: 3514_0):
There's not a whole lot of convincing parents who are making decisions based on protecting their family. He's a dad, his number one priority should be caring for and protecting his children. You are lucky he cares. Yes, its less fun, but it wouldn't be hard to do it his way now, and when you become independent, get the e30. You are 17, whats a year or two? maybe consider a bigger/safer, but nearly as cool and fun BMW as a temporary alternative? e34/e32/e46?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3514_10):
I think your dad is a little off about E30 not being safe, Its definitely not a new car, but I've rolled one and the roof line didnt crush me. However they are old, and the crumple zones are your knees in a 60+mph collision, IMO the safe part of the car is it usually is agile enough to be turned into a ditch without skidding into the car/accident you are avoiding. Id grab something like an E39 as your DD and get an E30 later.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3514_2):
When I was OP's age I wanted an e21 as my first car. Instead I got to walk to school. Didn't get my first e30 until 3 years later OP if you want an e30 grow a pair and stand up for what you want. Your lucky to live in a place where there's still plenty to choose from (and will be for some time).

ANSWER 4 (id: 3514_4):
Originally posted by 88BlackS-ETA I remember when my parents 'forbid' me from getting a BMW car...LOL.. I now own a 1988 e30 and a 2002 Audi and still live with them... oh you're a badass. its very rebellious to still live with your parents.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3514_5):
I wanted an E30 as my first car. Unfortunately, my parents had a rule that it had to have airbags, and long story short, it was too hard to find a 90-91 E30. Ended up getting a B5 A4 instead. It had airbags. It had also been slid into a curb, and had bent suspension components that caused it to pull hard to the right that my dad somehow didn't notice, despite being pretty car savvy (except when buying). I'd argue that the A4 was actually more unsafe, but I guess that's in the past so whatever, but still pisses me off thinking about it. I have an E30 now, finally. I'm pretty sure I'm gonna sell it soon though. It's becoming a nickel and dime project, things constantly breaking. Fuck that. Anyway, my advice, wait until you're 18 (soon?), save up, and buy whatever you want with your own money.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3514_6):
E46s 330i seems to be similar price to E30 325i right now, maybe less even, try to go that way, but make sure the parental units are aware that the newer cars are more expensive to maintain, and that if they insist you own one that you would appreciate financial assistance with any deferred and future maintenance. If they don't pay for it already. I could have never had an E30 as a teenager if anything because it wasn't American, even in my mid-20s and living 5 hours away I had to ease into it with a Civic winter beater before I eventually switched back to an American beater and bought my AE86. Almost every single one of my parents, step-parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles worked for GM or Ford, many until retirement. My Dad was the worst, would give my friends with imports shit, threaten to make them park in the street, but eventually a ride in a modded Evo and the realization that all the affordable American cars have been boring for years made him come around. He'll never own a car assembled outside the U.S./Canada though, or from an import brand.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3514_7):
I don't think I'd want an e30 as my only car. I'm not sure if you are into modifications but once I figured out that modding a car was so much more fun when it wasn't your only vehicle, I wish I would have gone a different route in my car purchases earlier in life. In other words, get a car that you enjoy driving around everyday, reliable, safe, don't care if it gets scratched, etc. Then, buy a fun hobby car. It's a lot more work and takes time, but definitely pays off in the end when you are trying to put parts on and don't have to worry about breaking your only car.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3514_9):
Originally posted by Vincent Brick E46s 330i seems to be similar price to E30 325i right now, maybe less even, try to go that way, but make sure the parental units are aware that the newer cars are more expensive to maintain, and that if they insist you own one that you would appreciate financial assistance with any deferred and future maintenance. If they don't pay for it already. I could have never had an E30 as a teenager if anything because it wasn't American, even in my mid-20s and living 5 hours away I had to ease into it with a Civic winter beater before I eventually switched back to an American beater and bought my AE86. Almost every single one of my parents, step-parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles worked for GM or Ford, many until retirement. My Dad was the worst, would give my friends with imports shit, threaten to make them park in the street, but eventually a ride in a modded Evo and the realization that all the affordable American cars have been boring for years made him come around. He'll never own a car assembled outside the U.S./Canada though, or from an import brand. Man, people can be thick... I had a similar conversation with my friend's dad. He was giving me shit for driving a Subaru, because it wasn't American. He drives a RAM truck. Me: "It was built in Indiana, by Americans". Him: "Well, the profits go off-shore" Me: "I bought it used, so the profits went to the previous owner, also Subaru is a multi-national corporation, so you and I can buy stock and share their profits. You realize that FIAT owns RAM now, right?" Him: *Slackjawed* He also gave me shit for not supporting Cruz that day too lol... Edit: OP, get an e34 or an e36 to appease the rents and also still have fun.