QUESTION ID: 1409

QUESTION:
All I’ve sorted most if not all of the mechanical/maintenance type chores on the Verty30...valve adjustment, new coolant hoses, new bitch pipe, new oil pan gasket, new intake manifold gaskets, new engine mounts, new trans mounts, new front and rear end links, new sway bar bushings, 3.73 LSD refreshed swap, new timing belt, water pump, therm, new radiator, new starter, new alt, new belts, all fluids changed. What next? I’ve freed up about $1,000. New suspension? New x-brace/strutbrace? Or new Wheels? Opinions please.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1409_0):
Originally posted by Echo30V All I’ve sorted most if not all of the mechanical/maintenance type chores on the Verty30...valve adjustment, new coolant hoses, new bitch pipe, new oil pan gasket, new intake manifold gaskets, new engine mounts, new trans mounts, new front and rear tie rods, new sway bar bushings, 3.73 LSD refreshed swap, new timing belt, water pump, therm, new radiator, new starter, new alt, new belts, all fluids changed. What next? I’ve freed up about $1,000. New suspension? New x-brace/strutbrace? Or new Wheels? Opinions please. Adjustable rear subframe from Garagistic and some Billy's with H&R springs for you car [emoji106] I'm gonna be getting the adjustment plates here pretty soon so I can FINALLY align my rear end lol Sent from my SM-N910V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1409_2):
Originally posted by Echo30V Did not think of the adjustable rear subframe. Interesting. Really not needed and a street car. Springs & dampers always make a big difference, as would an e36 rack and rear subframe bushings. Curious how you installed "rear tie rods" :-) oh...and read up before you jump on Bilstein. A lot of people have moved to Koni (including moi) and Im not aware of anyone who has ever replaced Koni w BS

ANSWER 3 (id: 1409_3):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Really not needed and a street car. Springs & dampers always make a big difference, as would an e36 rack and rear subframe bushings. Curious how you installed "rear tie rods" :-) oh...and read up before you jump on Bilstein. A lot of people have moved to Koni (including moi) and Im not aware of anyone who has ever replaced Koni w BS What's the main advantage of Koni? When it comes time to upgrade my suspension I plan to go with some CATuned coilovers or Ground Controls, but I'm interested to hear the cause for konis Sent from my SM-N910V using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1409_4):
Haha, sorry meant end links. I am a bit hesitant on the Bilsteins. I find their ride a bit harsh. On my E36M3, I went with Adjustable Konis and liked ride much better. Just wasn’t sure if the e30 platform did better with the Billy Sports?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1409_7):
Originally posted by Echo30V Haha, sorry meant end links. I am a bit hesitant on the Bilsteins. I find their ride a bit harsh. On my E36M3, I went with Adjustable Konis and liked ride much better. Just wasn’t sure if the e30 platform did better with the Billy Sports? Nothing unique about e30s that makes them more "bilstein friendly" than any other platform. I had BS Sports in my M10 e30 for years, then installed a set in my cabrio when I bought it. Always with new springs and eventually the ride made me just dislike the car. I finally remembered how pleased I was with the Konis I put on a GTV2000 years ago, so I upgraded the cabrio. Night and day. Lost the bone jarring with zero loss of handling. I threw FSD's in my A6...love those too and am in the process of swapping out the BS Touring/H&R OE Sport set up in our ETA for Koni SAs and H&R Sports (in anticipation of the built 731 head swap). Not that I care :-)

ANSWER 6 (id: 1409_8):
So Koni SAs and H&R Sport springs for the e30 Vert? How close is the spring rate on the H&Rs compared to stock? I guess my question is, is it foolish to buy wheels before sorting the suspension? I’m a big advocate of sorting the mechanicals first then the rest of ther car. Mechanics sorted.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1409_9):
Sort the suspension then buy wheels. Jeff an I have different opinions on the Bilstiens. I've had Billys on other cars in the past and agree they can be firm to the point of harsh. Decided to try them again on the Cabrio after many positive reviews. IMO they are a prefect complement to the H&R Cabrio springs. Not stiff or jarring at all. The Konis are a bit more money, but you do get adjustability. Front X brace is highly recommended. Really tightened up the front end on mine.