QUESTION ID: 552

QUESTION:
Hi guys, I recently did a new stereo install on my e30, keeping all original wiring, and part of that for me was not hacking up the harness for the OEM Blaupunkt amp in the trunk. I searched for the specific connector they simply do not exist, there's no part numbers to be found anywhere. So I made my own! in the pictures attached you can see I 3d-printed a female connector identical to the one on the factory amp. (For my specific install I'll be using the alpine ktp-445u for its small size) I'm posting this as a feeler to see if anybody would be interested in purchasing this as a kit, including the 2 piece 3d printed connector housing and pins. Potentially with wires already attached, depending on what you want. (PHOTOS IN THE GOOGLE DRIVE LINK) Please let me know! Thanks, -Ryan EDIT: The kit is now available to purchase through paypal using this link: https://py.pl/2YKPB84P9aM The connector has been redesigned to increase its strength, and now uses a 3 piece clip design. Please allow 3-5 days of processing time, as I'm not selling loads of these so they take a little while to make.

ANSWER 1 (id: 552_1):
Very cool! Although I already built a system (ripped out all the factory wiring), this would be a great time saver for a lot of people. Just crimp some 12" twisted-pair wires onto the signal pins (I assume that those are TE/Amp open barrel terminals), and add the switched 12V, and people would have a convenient pigtail to work with.

ANSWER 2 (id: 552_10):
the link is a 404 now.. anyone have an .stl? I suppose it wouldn't be hard to make a new model from scratch. I get that the OP probably didn't sell enough to make it worth the effort though, bummer.

ANSWER 3 (id: 552_11):
I decided an adapter is pointless because you can't get 4 channel inputs with that connector (since the grounds are tied together). I can easily repair the wiring, so I'm basically going to do the same thing again - cut off the wires before the grounds merge, splice in my new amp connector. I'll repair the splices I made earlier in the stock connector, bag it up and tape it to the inside of the fender in case somebody in the future wants to remove the aftermarket amp. thinking of doing the same thing in the front. I can see all the separate grounds in the harness before they merge. and I have pigtails from another stereo that have the +/- separate - any reason this wouldn't work? is there any benefit to separating the grounds at the radio end? (edit - got it all working, with the wiring all spliced back to stock - seems to work fine with the common ground, so I'm leaving it alone!)

ANSWER 4 (id: 552_2):
Originally posted by RyanBelton Hi guys, I recently did a new stereo install on my e30, keeping all original wiring, and part of that for me was not hacking up the harness for the OEM Blaupunkt amp in the trunk. I searched for the specific connector they simply do not exist, there's no part numbers to be found anywhere. So I made my own! in the pictures attached you can see I 3d-printed a female connector identical to the one on the factory amp. (For my specific install I'll be using the alpine ktp-445u for its small size) I'm posting this as a feeler to see if anybody would be interested in purchasing this as a kit, including the 2 piece 3d printed connector housing and pins. Potentially with wires already attached, depending on what you want. (PHOTOS IN THE GOOGLE DRIVE LINK) Please let me know! Thanks, -Ryan I'm interested! I've had some difficulty finding someone to refurb my OEM amp, so I'm at the point of just going with something more modern. I see you posted this back in October; how did the 3D-printed connector work out for you? What are you thinking on price?

ANSWER 5 (id: 552_3):
Originally posted by Aleman I'm interested! I've had some difficulty finding someone to refurb my OEM amp, so I'm at the point of just going with something more modern. I see you posted this back in October; how did the 3D-printed connector work out for you? What are you thinking on price? Hey! sorry for the late reply, I'm more active on the r3v facebook group these days so I haven't checked back here in a while. The connector is available for sale at this link https://py.pl/2YKPB84P9aM I have this installed in my car and it works flawlessly, it made the install really quick and easy because I could do all the soldering outside the car, best part is that its completely reversible so if you ended up wanting to go back to the factory setup you can do that too.

ANSWER 6 (id: 552_4):
Originally posted by RyanBelton Hey! sorry for the late reply, I'm more active on the r3v facebook group these days so I haven't checked back here in a while. The connector is available for sale at this link https://www.paypal.com/instantcommer.../D6ERSNBXKK6G6 I have this installed in my car and it works flawlessly, it made the install really quick and easy because I could do all the soldering outside the car, best part is that its completely reversible so if you ended up wanting to go back to the factory setup you can do that too. I love it! Just ordered one.

ANSWER 7 (id: 552_5):
nice job! just ordered one. been wanting to get an adapter harness built for a long time, but blocked by the same problem - couldn't find the original AMP connector. what kind of plastic did you use to print? bradnic at oemhifi fb.me/oemhifi

ANSWER 8 (id: 552_9):
[QUOTE=RyanBelton;n9980218] Hey! sorry for the late reply, I'm more active on the r3v facebook group these days so I haven't checked back here in a while. The connector is available for sale at this link https://py.pl/2YKPB84P9aM I have this installed in my car and it works flawlessly, it made the install really quick and easy because I could do all the soldering outside the car, best part is that its completely reversible so if you ended up wanting to go back to the factory setup you can do that too.[/ Ryan are these still available? I sent PayPal to the above link but never heard anything. -Darren