QUESTION ID: 4

QUESTION:
Hi all, I have successfully wired the E92 seats to keep them alive; they do not turn off every ten seconds or so. I dont post often, so apologies for formatting and layout in this post if it looks a bit munted. It took ages to suss this out so if it helps even one person, that's a good result. This is how I did the bench test, they've still got to be put in the E30, I'm using LOWN Performance seat brackets specifically made for this swap- real good blokes to deal with and were more than happy to send me a set (I'm in Australia) They don't look like they've got them on their current online storefront. Maybe give them a call? Anyway, First, I depinned the yellow connector under the seats- ​ ​ You only need these wires ​​​ , they are in the black block connector inside the big yellow one, the two smaller grey module/blocks that are also inside it arent needed, just tuck them up out of the way ​ ​ Thick red is positive,thin red/black is positive browns are negative , these need to be connected to 12vDC + & - The twisted pair, should be orange and green need to be connected to the pulse width modulators out put. Orange is positive from the PWM, Green is Negative from the PWM. This MUST be powered by a 12Vdc to 5Vdc step down BUCK is powered by the same source that goes to the thick red and brown wires. The Buck is pretty cheap on Amazon or wherever, so too is the PWM, its a ZK-PP2K- you do not need this exact model, it's just the one I had success with ​ Recap- 12v DC goes to BUCK stepdown to 5V dc which then goes to the Pulse Width Modulator. (PWM) The PWM output goes to the twisted Orange/Green pair- Orange is +, Green is - ​ PWM set to 5.000 KhZ and the Duty Cycle to 50 % THICK RED WIRE And his little red/black mate fo together to a 12V dc positive Brown ones go together to a 12Vdc negative Twisted Orange/Green go to the PWM which puts out 5V dc and the PWM set to 5000khz and duty cycle to 50% Orange is positive, green is negative. If there's any interest, I can post up how they'll be wired into the E30. It's beauty used to be a 1989 4 cyl RHD 318i with a 5 speed and open diff. Now, its got an M54B30, 5 speed, LSD, SS lines, Renault Clio brake booster, all new bushings (Mix of OEM rubber and nolathane) LSD , new radiator to suit, blah blah blah Goes like stink. ​ ​​ Attached Files image.png (0, 0 views)

ANSWER 1 (id: 4_1):
Originally posted by bakedfool How did you mount them? Mount what mate. The seats? The Lown Perfomance brackets, the link is in the original post. If you mean the PWM & Buck, they'll be mounted on the bracket the yellow connectors were on.