QUESTION ID: 3522

QUESTION:
Just picked up a sweet E21 but it needs some serious detailing inside and out.. Looking for a professional that works on older cars in NY/NJ.. Don't want to take it to a shitty car wash for a crap job.. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3522_10):
I'm not looking to break the bank.. I know high end quality work is pricey but I'm looking for something affordable, not cheap but also not $400 for a detail job Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3522_12):
I just had my e30 detailed by a r3v member pr3lude, he's in Brooklyn (sunset park). His work is amazing and extremely fair with pricing. He brought my original paint back to life, even my rear bumper that was rattle canned looks like it was professionally sprayed. Super detailed, highly recommend him! 347-440-9257 Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3522_4):
Larry Kosilla of Ammo NYC is probably your best bet, he may be the most expensive but from what I've seen, it's worth it. His knowledge is insane. Instagram handle is ammonyc / website www.ammonyc.com Sweet e21! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 3522_5):
We have a guy here in the shop next to us "Guten parts and service" who does amazing work. We're also right on and off the train. So it makes it really simple to get here and back into the city. Shoot me a message and I will send you his contact info. We're located in south orange Nj.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3522_7):
I work at Deluxe Car Storage in Long Island NY. Our detailer does pretty good work and works on anything we store from classic Ferraris to exotics etc. PM me if you want to set something up. You can always take it to Detailing Dynamics who does top of the line stuff but the pricing is pretty high...BUT they do the best work.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3522_8):
Originally posted by ambdxtrous Larry Kosilla of Ammo NYC is probably your best bet, he may be the most expensive but from what I've seen, it's worth it. His knowledge is insane. Instagram handle is ammonyc / website www.ammonyc.com Sweet e21! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk +1 on Larry from Ammo. Also, i'm not sure how far you are from CT, but I can vouch for Details by Dennis. He did my M3 and the guy was amazing. Very meticulous. When he was done with my car, you could eat off the barrels of my wheels. He cleaned all the wheel weight gunk and brake dust off. They looked brand new. He took a paint meter to every panel on the car before talking to me about an approach, and did a fantastic job on the paint. But he really went the extra mile with things like the insides of the wheels, underside of the side skirts, ect. Great detailer. www.detailsbydennis.com

ANSWER 7 (id: 3522_9):
Thanks guys, unheard really good gongs about Guten Auto.. May check you guys out since it's not too far from Brooklyn Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk