QUESTION ID: 302

QUESTION:
Well, i am sure most of you know what i mean by the rotor retaining screw, and my question is, is it a must-have? Ive managed to strip it, as it has never been removed, and ive tried every method to get it out, and have failed, so im takinging it to get it drilled out tomorrow. If i get it drilled out, do i need to replace it? As far as i know, its only purpose is to hold the rotor in place when the wheel/lug bolts are out. It would be much easier for me if i can drill it out, get my new rotor and pads on, and then bolt it all back together with the lugs. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 302_0):
I dont use them, but I have studs. Getting the hub and rotor aligned each time you put the wheels on would be a pain. Put a new screw in but use some anti-seize on the threads to make removal easy in the future.

ANSWER 2 (id: 302_1):
Well, i dont have a spare screw at the moment, so would it be acceptable to drill out my current screw, then align it all up and get a new screw later this week? My main question is, is it alright to drive without this screw?

ANSWER 3 (id: 302_2):
Originally posted by SpasticDwarf Well, i dont have a spare screw at the moment, so would it be acceptable to drill out my current screw, then align it all up and get a new screw later this week? My main question is, is it alright to drive without this screw? Think about it. YOu think that itty bitty screw is what holds your rotor on when driving and braking? It's perfectly fine to drive without it. Set screws only purpose is to hold the rotors on while the car is on an assembly line. I also run studs, but either studs and nuts or lug bolts torqued down with the wheel is what hold the rotor in place.

ANSWER 4 (id: 302_3):
Just make a stud out of the old screw and JB weld it in. Or slather JB weld on to the screw and put it in. Wait over night and then threads will have formed, weak ones at that but who cars, right?

ANSWER 5 (id: 302_4):
Throw it out (along with your lug bolts) and get a stud kit. :) This little screw simply keeps the rotor aligned with the hub when using bolts. Convert to studs if you can. It's fast, easy, and makes wheel installation much easier. Cheers!