QUESTION ID: 539

QUESTION:
my radio won't except the security code anymore. I did a little research a year ago and talked to a company on the West coast that could disconnect the code device or........and get the radio working again but I don't seem to find that number or name anymore. Does anyone have insight on this issue and maybe the connection of someone that can rectify the problem.......it would be nice to keep the original radio. I research and replacement and came up with a Blaupunkt Bremen SQR 46 DAB but in a installation video it looked to me like the radio stuck out of the dash some. Any insight would be helpful. A radio with bluetooth to connect your phone to would be nice...... Thanks Frank

ANSWER 1 (id: 539_0):
Originally posted by FARJR my radio won't except the security code anymore. I did a little research a year ago and talked to a company on the West coast that could disconnect the code device or........and get the radio working again but I don't seem to find that number or name anymore. Does anyone have insight on this issue and maybe the connection of someone that can rectify the problem.......it would be nice to keep the original radio. I research and replacement and came up with a Blaupunkt Bremen SQR 46 DAB but in a installation video it looked to me like the radio stuck out of the dash some. Any insight would be helpful. A radio with bluetooth to connect your phone to would be nice...... Thanks Frank two things to try since you have the code : drive around or leave the key in the on position without running the car, for 70 minutes with the radio on - even though the radio won't work. then try the code. i think the 70 minute thing is to ensure it's just more than an hour. i dunno if it has any significance, other than it won't work if under an hour. if that doesn't work - then try this open hood disconnect battery cables touch positive and negative cables together 60 seconds or longer reconnect and try the code there's also a way to decode it or change the code if you are good at electronics. there's a set of 8 jumper points on the radio board, how they are jumpered determines the code. there are decoders online that can decode it once you get to the board. you can decode / reset yourself or there is also a uk company out there that can decode it for you or reset it. there should still be folk in the US doing it as well. ​

ANSWER 2 (id: 539_1):
Originally posted by FARJR my radio won't except the security code anymore. I did a little research a year ago and talked to a company on the West coast that could disconnect the code device or........and get the radio working again but I don't seem to find that number or name anymore. Does anyone have insight on this issue and maybe the connection of someone that can rectify the problem.......it would be nice to keep the original radio. I research and replacement and came up with a Blaupunkt Bremen SQR 46 DAB but in a installation video it looked to me like the radio stuck out of the dash some. Any insight would be helpful. A radio with bluetooth to connect your phone to would be nice...... Thanks Frank I had the same issue on my '88. We ended up soldering a new code into the radio, per the above recommendation.

ANSWER 3 (id: 539_2):
thank you for your responses ....... I will try the key on and disconnect if that doesn't work I will have to source it out to someone with inner workings talent ...... Have a Great Day