QUESTION ID: 2822

QUESTION:
Ever bought a dirt cheap car to part out yourself only to have the seller seriously ask: "After you take what you need, would you give me the cash for what you sell the rest for?" It was listed as "selling for someone to fix it up or part it out" Picking up the car in the morning, here's what's happened so far. -After agreeing on a price and starting to arrange pick up, she raised the price cuz 'it was her kid's first car' -After saying I want to take a look under the valve cover, I'll be back with my tools, she said OK to the original agreement. -After agreeing to be there sometime Saturday morning with a rented trailer, Friday night she says I have a half hour window to get it. This is right after the rental place opens, which is always busy on a Saturday morning, and it's 40 minutes away, so it's impossible. -She tells me she continued to show the car after giving me the signed title and taking my cash. ****She wants one of the following guys who looked at it to meet me there when I get the car....so that I can arrange for him to buy the body and give her the money! (I wanted the engine and trans)**** -She wants this same guy to sign the title in front of her, since well, he's getting the body off course... I've already signed the title, so has the owner, who is this lady's son, who wasn't involved in the sale. I'm losing sleep over this crazy woman. More tomorrow.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2822_1):
Good luck man. You have the signed title in your hand. Anything she attempts to sell of your new car is effectively stealing from you. Maybe register it as non-op in your name to absolutely confirm ownership? Tell guy #2 he can get the body after your new title comes in the mail which then you can sign over to him and you're not going to do it any other way.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2822_10):
you should have just slapped her in the face with your one eyed beaver spear. Jesus! just imagine being married to someone like her? I've seen all kinds of shit shows in my day akin to this one. most of the time, I will suggest they lick the puss off the tip of a homeless guy's dick and walk away. one of these days, I will tell the tale of the z3 parts car I bought from two red neck Rosie o'donnel looking lesbians. cliff notes: it came with no title, she swore it was her car, signed a receipt saying she sold it to me, then called about 3 weeks later saying she sold it to me by mistake and needed really badly to buy it back. that is about 20% of the story. sadly, it was much crazier than your situation.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2822_11):
She asked a few times, "Am I being too emotional about this? I mean, he was so happy when he bought it..." As soon as it hit the trailer, she covered her mouth and went inside. She also kept trying to take out the clearly marked BMW parts that were removed from, or still attached to the car until husband stepped in again, 'Just leave it!' There are just too few M30 powered cars for sale around here and I'm sick of driving across a state or two to get one so I had to make this work as it's the closest to home I've ever bought. Yea, I was sure this was by far not the craziest story and I've been witness to worse, but it's my personal classic. Do tell Flyboyx, sounds like a winner already!

ANSWER 4 (id: 2822_2):
Originally posted by ChumSpuzz Reserving for the rest of the story IF I pick up the car in the morning. ftfy ;) If it seems too good to be true.. ...well, I'm sure you know the rest

ANSWER 5 (id: 2822_3):
Why would you ever tell someone your intentions when buying a car? it doesn't matter if i just need the mirrors, if i'm buying the car what I do with it after is none of their concern. If you have the title and she has the cash, the car is yours. Don't let it go down any other way.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2822_4):
It was listed as being a candidate for a part out, I did tell her I'd first try to get it running, or part out if needed. It's not too good to be true at all. E32 735il, body is great but headgasket is toast, self leveling suspension is shot, interior is shot, no key, mileage unknown, noob car hacks all over, I paid just the right amount and get all that I need to help with my M30 swap of another motor. Yea, if she has dude #2 show up, I'll give him my number and say call me tomorrow for parts cuz I'm not dealing with him there. I can't transfer title in this state without putting insurance on it and buying tabs and I'm not going to pay for that so he's not getting it. First and last time I don't take the car home on the spot. 4th car I've bought this year, 30+ cars in the past 17+ years, this is a first. Time for the shitshow to begin, back later.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2822_5):
Her husband was there and provided a little sanity to the situation while she sat inside and cried because her kids first car was leaving. Thankfully the dealings with them were uneventful today. Sorry for the suspense mister Jackson, nothing to see here. However the car dolly was missing the ratchet that should have been attached to the trailer itself which we noticed after the car was already up the ramps and half strapped on. 2 more hours of calling the rental place, leaving the car in a church parking lot, driving back and forth to get a removable ratchet from the rental place, my dad was pissed. Got the job done though. Cool story bro, I know. $400 for the car, was going to buy 4 of the parts I needed online for over $200 so kind of a no brainer to get a whole car. Time to continue with the M30 swap.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2822_7):
She seems more pissed about not getting more money for it as opposed to the "first car" nonsense. If it was so important to her, why not just keep it as a fancy driveway ornament?