QUESTION ID: 1551

QUESTION:
hello everyone! i dropped the rear subframe to do all the bushings and but new diff seals in while I'm at it. My question is my hard lines above the subframe going into the T fitting are toast. i ordered the chase bays Front to rear brake line kit which eliminates the T fitting and the Hard to soft line combo. Just seeing if anyone has used this kit and if it is an easy install or not. thank you in advance for all advice.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1551_0):
Originally posted by Cowboy.Jim hello everyone! i dropped the rear subframe to do all the bushings and but new diff seals in while I'm at it. My question is my hard lines above the subframe going into the T fitting are toast. i ordered the chase bays Front to rear brake line kit which eliminates the T fitting and the Hard to soft line combo. Just seeing if anyone has used this kit and if it is an easy install or not. thank you in advance for all advice. I have the chase bays brake lines in my ix. They fit, but there isn't a lot of slack on the rears. You can't just follow the old routing of the lines completely, that was my only complaint about them. Otherwise they are an awesome product all around. It's really nice to be able to rip all that old shit out.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1551_1):
Originally posted by jeenyus I have the chase bays brake lines in my ix. They fit, but there isn't a lot of slack on the rears. You can't just follow the old routing of the lines completely, that was my only complaint about them. Otherwise they are an awesome product all around. It's really nice to be able to rip all that old shit out. thank you for the heads up! where does the line connect in the front is it right off the master or is it going to the nightmare brake proportioning valve on the inside of the driver wheel well below the booster. because i have no idea how I'm going to get to it. i have everything off the front as well minus dropping the subframe. i ordered the front lines as well from them.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1551_2):
I'm not exactly sure what you're asking. No subframe removal necessary for the install of lines. First picture you'll see where the rear lines connect. Second picture the routing I used for the passenger side. The driver side you need to route different in the rear.