QUESTION ID: 2206

QUESTION:
I am not much of a writer and terrible at documenting things. However I am deep into a project that I feel I should share with everyone. I bought a 1987 (early model) 325is 5spd from its original owner back in NOV 2022. It was garage kept but not maintained well. It has close to only 90,000 miles on it. I decided to start with a mild restoration and use this as an opportunity to learn more about the car. However this has now turned into a much more in detail project and the results will be amazing! Now let's dive into the fun stuff. I will upload pics to the best of my ability and answer questions along the way. I fully anticipate to tear into EVERYTHING on this car and will rely heavily on people on this forum for guidance as I rebuild it. Here are a few pictures of the car the day I picked it up.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2206_0):
Once the car came home I began removing everything, and I mean...EVERYTHING. Keep in mind this is my very first time doing this. I am taking lots of pictures and labeling everything. Ive going FB and e30 groups and have made greta friends along the journey.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2206_2):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop This was a good find. 90k is pretty low for an E30, practically broke in now. Yes, except I am finding a lot of random things that need more attention. For example, the car was driven for a week or two then sat for several months to a year and then driven again...so on and so forth by teh previous owner. The oil I found in the engine was tar and I am guessing the oil cooler is trash. 5 mouse nests through out the car...LMAO! However when I am done it will smell like a 2022 e30 ;)

ANSWER 3 (id: 2206_3):
A few interior shots of the full gut... more to come. I will be replacing the carpet, adding additional protection to the floor, doors, and firewall with sound deadening material and rust encapsulation. The headliner is coming out, the door cards and every wire. Stay tuned.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2206_4):
This thread's gonna be a great resource for others! This is a good video about rewiring your car (not super relevant) with some great tips on using a label maker with heat shrink labels for documenting connections: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pSXv8RHa22I Another one from the same guy (Superfast Matt) on Dynamat, which I'm thinking about doing to one of my cars to see how much of a difference it makes. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUabCxcT5R4

ANSWER 5 (id: 2206_5):
Originally posted by blalor This thread's gonna be a great resource for others! This is a good video about rewiring your car (not super relevant) with some great tips on using a label maker with heat shrink labels for documenting connections: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pSXv8RHa22I Another one from the same guy (Superfast Matt) on Dynamat, which I'm thinking about doing to one of my cars to see how much of a difference it makes. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUabCxcT5R4 Thank You. I'm not one of of documenting...I typically like to disassemble and rebuild and learn, but I very rarely explain things to others. So for me, this is green practices and I do hope its helpful for others. I will go dipper into the restore next week. But for now here is a teaser and a picture of what inspires me and what I expect the final build to look like:

ANSWER 6 (id: 2206_6):
Here is the current list of new parts that have arrived and sitting in my garage. I will be adding to the list as the build continues, but this will give you an idea of what's to come. ;-)

ANSWER 7 (id: 2206_7):
I'd recommend Hushmat over Dynamat as it blocks heat as well as sound. Have tested it in my miata and there is a noticeable difference in heat transfer into the cabin. Couple shots on the last page of my E30 build thread if you want to see what Hushmat looks like installed.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2206_8):
Originally posted by Panici I'd recommend Hushmat over Dynamat as it blocks heat as well as sound. Have tested it in my miata and there is a noticeable difference in heat transfer into the cabin. Couple shots on the last page of my E30 build thread if you want to see what Hushmat looks like installed. Thanks for the feedback. I am not using Dynamat. Currently I have a 100sq ft of NOICO for interior. I have not decided on what I will use in the engine bay. I will read over your restoration thread and may come back with several questions. Thanks.