QUESTION ID: 2847

QUESTION:
Now don't beat down on me to much I know this has been mentioned previously but I struggled to figure out what was actual real genuine suggestions and what was just a laugh and a joke, don't really personally know anyone on here so hard to figure out peoples humour etc etc.... but yes, as mentioned in a previous thread I am doing a 10,000 mile coast to coast trip which we are taking over 90 days, information can be found in the link below https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=424012 now, I have an early model 325e to do the trip in. it has had a ton of preventative maintenance recently such as a full cooling system overhaul with new hoses, new brakes front and back and a tune up also a new timing belt. now I know with old cars things will inevitably go wrong and normally at the worst of times too. I am doing this adventure with my wife, and we all know how much shit women pack... so leaving room kind of limited for my lugguage let alone anything else. is there anything people would highly recommend on what I should pack given the potential limited space I am going to have, if needed I can have stuff on the back seats but I HATE clutter inside cars and would much rather keep it all to the boot, sorry I should say "trunk" after doing some research I have thought... bottle of water for cooling system just incase some form of radweld spare bottle of oil. fuelpump (suggestions or links will be appreciated) and maybe just a small multi piece tool kit. earplugs, for when something does break and I can block out the Mrs moaning. is there anything I am missing out that you suggest I take??

ANSWER 1 (id: 2847_0):
oil, water, and a small metric tool kit is about it. make sure your spare tire is good and your atm card is working. I would not worry about a spare fuel pump. if it goes, any local parts place will have one from a ford or chevy that will fit in place and is only 30-50 bucks. I have a 76 chevy vega pump in the four door and its bee running fine for almost two years now. that's all I carry on any trips I had ever done and I never had any heart stopping problems (in an e30, jeep wranglers gave me plenty though).

ANSWER 2 (id: 2847_1):
Originally posted by superj oil, water, and a small metric tool kit is about it. make sure your spare tire is good and your atm card is working. I would not worry about a spare fuel pump. if it goes, any local parts place will have one from a ford or chevy that will fit in place and is only 30-50 bucks. I have a 76 chevy vega pump in the four door and its bee running fine for almost two years now. that's all I carry on any trips I had ever done and I never had any heart stopping problems (in an e30, jeep wranglers gave me plenty though). oh sweet thats actually quite good and refreshing then, i will just cary the essentials and then if anything happens we can play that by ear Originally posted by MrBurgundy Aaa remember i am from England, so if that means something i got no idea. i just read it asif you was screaming. Aaa!!!!!!:hitler:

ANSWER 3 (id: 2847_10):
Originally posted by george graves 10.000 miles? Coast to coast? Oh.......not this continent. You should have mentioned that. all the details are in the attached thread as mentioned in the first post. I'm not going across it in a straight line, the trip is taking 90 days and we are seeing as much as we can. Untitled by ben walsh, on Flickr

ANSWER 4 (id: 2847_11):
Originally posted by Powling Oh well in that case all you need is an UBER RARE 320 S EDITION and you're set. I just found that thread and I completely understand it now!! I wish that thread wasn't closed so I could comment and mention a few things... But I just want to apologise on behalf of England, we are not all that way inclined. Basically it seemed that he had a 320i which just had most the sport options ticked and they labelled it a "special edition"

ANSWER 5 (id: 2847_12):
Originally posted by benwalsh91 AAA: from what I've read as I will be "International" I will only get the basic service which is... https://www.aaa.com/international/in...ffiliates.html You can get the regular service just use your friends US address and sign up before you fly over so that you can get your physical card when you get here. I would get the gold membership so you have 200 mile towing service which on a trip like yours would be helpful if something went wrong. My best advice is to have whatever car you are buying gone over before the trip and address anything big it needs.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2847_3):
Originally posted by benwalsh91 remember i am from England, so if that means something i got no idea. i just read it asif you was screaming. Aaa!!!!!!:hitler: Oh well in that case all you need is an UBER RARE 320 S EDITION and you're set.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2847_4):
AAA (Triple A) it’s an insurance company that also offers the best roadside service available in my opinion. I once was towed 600 miles and it didn’t cost me a dime.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2847_6):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy lol It's a roadside assistance service AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA! Originally posted by ButtJuice AAA (Triple A) it’s an insurance company that also offers the best roadside service available in my opinion. I once was towed 600 miles and it didn’t cost me a dime. oh sweet I will look into that, unsure how it will work as I am not a resident and don't have any form of registered address in USA. I shall speak to a friend of mine who the car is currently registered to and see what we can work out. Originally posted by Powling Oh well in that case all you need is an UBER RARE 320 S EDITION and you're set. I was actually looking at getting an e30 touring and shipping that to use when I couldn't get my 36 touring over but trying to find a nice condition good spec e30 touring in budget (and having to counter in shipping) was just not looking hopeful but atleast this way we can ship the car back to the UK and I would like to fully restore it similar to what I done to my old e36, stripped it completely to a shell and rebuilt everything with either genuine BMW parts or upgraded aftermarket parts. If this little 325e survives the trip it will be with me for life as this trip is actually our Honeymoon.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2847_7):
AAA: from what I've read as I will be "International" I will only get the basic service which is... AAA International Relations https://www.aaa.com/international/internationalaffiliates.html