QUESTION ID: 2175

QUESTION:
Is Ireland Engineering still in business? I've tried phoning at all different times but no answer and can't leave a message. Tried email but no response so far. Thanks.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2175_1):
Businesses still have a lot going on and like Garagistic has said in the past: the more time they spend fielding calls and emails, the less time they're spending on filling orders. Try to have patience. Ireland Engineering is a reputable business and very much part of the E30 community. They also recently had their shop broken into and had a lot of stuff stolen, so they're probably still recovering from that too.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2175_10):
A mechanic friend (E30 enthusiast) mentioned a few months ago their shop was broken into and a bunch of tools were taken. I was ordering parts for a brake job around that time and it took a bit to catch their attention to the order. I'm sure that set them back quite a bit. I did receive the order shortly after that, though, and some follow up to a switch in pads/material after that.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2175_4):
Is everyone still using covid excuse? Should've read this page. placed the order for a couple of small clutch bushings (can fit in the envelope), got banged $20 for shipping for those (are they using 12x12x10 huge usps flat rate priority box? lol). Thought ok, maybe I get it faster....nope...Emailed Anfrew, got an email back with cold one liner "5-7 business days for handling as per the purchase agreement". Very much part of e30 community you say? Hahaha...evil corporate ECS Tuning customer service is like calling your mama than compared to "e30 community oriented" IE. IE yelp reviews are terrible these days, and their facebook page has all reviews completely turned off......sad

ANSWER 4 (id: 2175_5):
Originally posted by zaq123 Is everyone still using covid excuse? Should've read this page. placed the order for a couple of small clutch bushings (can fit in the envelope), got banged $20 for shipping for those (are they using 12x12x10 huge usps flat rate priority box? lol). Thought ok, maybe I get it faster....nope...Emailed Anfrew, got an email back with cold one liner "5-7 business days for handling as per the purchase agreement". Very much part of e30 community you say? Hahaha...evil corporate ECS Tuning customer service is like calling your mama than compared to "e30 community oriented" IE. IE yelp reviews are terrible these days, and their facebook page has all reviews completely turned off......sad Their shipping calc has always been trash. Even back in the day it would quote me $100 to ship ridiculous things, and then you'd call, wait, call, wait, finally get someone and they'd be like "oh yeah, that's only $20 to ship". Unless I have to order from them, I avoid IE. It was bad before covid, and only appears to have gotten worse. I do think they are clearing house and regearing now that Andrew bought it out. My hope is that once that is fleshed out, things will improve. I'm weird about shipping, because I ship all day every day and know what it costs. It's a fraction of what some of these places are quoting for shipping. No reason to profit off of that side of the business IMO. I don't, anyway.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2175_6):
Thread kinda stale at this point, but when I ordered mid feb they were fairly responsive. It was silly that they were listing their rods as in stock when they had no rod bolts, then their rep told me I could buy OE bolts. Luckily I am the type who asks for the part number for the ARP bolts - upon a quick search I found OE would not have fit, not even close. They may be a small business but they need to step their game up. There should be a note in their system on what thread the bolts are so they don't inconvenience a less savvy customer by telling him the wrong thing. Originally posted by AWDBOB I'm weird about shipping, because I ship all day every day and know what it costs. It's a fraction of what some of these places are quoting for shipping. No reason to profit off of that side of the business IMO. I don't, anyway. I'm the same way, some of these companies really overcharge for shipping. IE and VAC come to mind.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2175_7):
Classiceuroparts.com has been amazing for me. Everything they have listed on their site includes shipping cost. So right from the get go you know what your getting into. Due the the Russian invasion they are having trouble shipping out everything exactly on time but evertime I have tried to get into contact with them, they have answered the phone or emailed back promptly. I'm currently trying to work out a small business situation with them to help get quality E30 parts to the east coast since the US wants to have most E30 things on the WEST COAST ONLY!! BOOOO👎👎🖕 lol.. but can't get things rolling till they get back to normal after the Russian crap.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2175_8):
Originally posted by GregC Is Ireland Engineering still in business? I've tried phoning at all different times but no answer and can't leave a message. Tried email but no response so far. Thanks. Meant to quote you for the reply above ^^

ANSWER 8 (id: 2175_9):
Originally posted by zaq123 Is everyone still using covid excuse? Should've read this page. placed the order for a couple of small clutch bushings (can fit in the envelope), got banged $20 for shipping for those (are they using 12x12x10 huge usps flat rate priority box? lol). Thought ok, maybe I get it faster....nope...Emailed Anfrew, got an email back with cold one liner "5-7 business days for handling as per the purchase agreement". Very much part of e30 community you say? Hahaha...evil corporate ECS Tuning customer service is like calling your mama than compared to "e30 community oriented" IE. IE yelp reviews are terrible these days, and their facebook page has all reviews completely turned off......sad It's not a COVID excuse. There are less people working everywhere and supply chains are still messed up.