QUESTION ID: 668

QUESTION:
Spent quite a bit of time putting this together, hope you guys find it useful. How to recharge AC system and use AC manifold gauges/vacuum: How to recharge the AC in your car (Eg. used will be E30) and how to use AC manifold gauges and pull vacuum | RTS - Your Total BMW Enthusiast http://www.rtsauto.com/how-to-recharge-the-ac-in-your-car-eg-used-will-be-e30-and-how-to-use-ac-manifold-gauges-and-pull-vacuum/ Recharging your own Air conditioning system is one of those things that seems difficult, but really is rather simple as long as you have all the correct tools and follow the correct steps. I will as in depth as I can describe how to properly pull a vacuum on your car, how to check it

ANSWER 1 (id: 668_0):
Originally posted by noid Spent quite a bit of time putting this together, hope you guys find it useful. How to recharge AC system and use AC manifold gauges/vacuum: http://www.rtsauto.com/how-to-rechar...d-pull-vacuum/ Well done, thank you! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 668_1):
Great write up! Since I came into Spring this year with all 3 of my old Bimmers blowing warm air from the A/C, I've been doing a lot of research. One thing I noticed is that you recommend turning the refrigerant can upside down while filling. Others say to leave the can upright while filling, because turning it upside down will feed in liquid (instead of gas) and damage the system. Any thoughts on the conflicting opinions? Thanks, Cory

ANSWER 3 (id: 668_2):
Originally posted by cory58 Great write up! Since I came into Spring this year with all 3 of my old Bimmers blowing warm air from the A/C, I've been doing a lot of research. One thing I noticed is that you recommend turning the refrigerant can upside down while filling. Others say to leave the can upright while filling, because turning it upside down will feed in liquid (instead of gas) and damage the system. Any thoughts on the conflicting opinions? Thanks, Cory Hydrocarbons and CFC's are heavier then air, therefore if you want to get the most out, you will want your can upside down. If your worried about slugging, start with the can upright, and end with can upside down.

ANSWER 4 (id: 668_3):
Originally posted by noid Hydrocarbons and CFC's are heavier then air, therefore if you want to get the most out, you will want your can upside down. If your worried about slugging, start with the can upright, and end with can upside down. Makes sense to me! Thanks. I added a can to my E12 last week, and rotated the can to 45 degrees until the site glass on the gauges started to bubble with liquid, then rotated it back up upright. Repeated that until the can was empty. Don't know if it made a difference, but I got the whole can in and the A/C blows cold now. Cory

ANSWER 5 (id: 668_7):
I played around with my vacuum pump on one of them last night and it has a leak. both high and low valves leak. I tried putting in new Schrader valves and still had leaks so I will have to put in new lines. the other should be good because the ac just stopped 3 weeks ago because one of the lines split and purged the system at a gas station. we changed the split line quickly but had no vacuum pump so its just been closed and waiting

ANSWER 6 (id: 668_8):
Originally posted by noid Spent quite a bit of time putting this together, hope you guys find it useful. How to recharge AC system and use AC manifold gauges/vacuum: http://www.rtsauto.com/how-to-rechar...d-pull-vacuum/ You know the write-up is gonna be good when it starts off with a mini-chemistry lesson. Thanks OP, you're a legend.