QUESTION ID: 2844

QUESTION:
Hey, I recently purchased a 1991 jdm mtech 2 with 81k mile and in pristine condition. I haven't recieved the car yet from the dealer I purchased it from and my rationale was based off of the mtechs we have here in the states. From what I understand the jdm mtechs are same as the euro ones. They have the m3 suspension, self leveling euro headlights, cloth seats, auto tranny with a sport setting, no sunroof, green tint, match 2 steering wheel and of course the bodykit. I'd love to hear from you guys, they were asking 26,900 but I was able to talk them down a few thousand. Thanks Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2844_0):
The head lights are not self leveling, they're just adjustable from a knob inside of the car. Are you going to register it in California? Get ready for an expensive process if you want to do so legally.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2844_12):
Originally posted by e30 brick The dealer selling it is in Arizona and he said it has cats on it. So I have my fingers crossed it will pass emissions. I'm assuming since the car was allowed to make entry into the port, it would have had to go thru an extensive process to pass DOT standards. I tried to do some research on it before hand. But, I will admit correct information is scarce. No, vehicles over 25 years old may pass through customs without emissions compliance or any type of safety inspection. However, if the catalysts are in good shape and the engine is in a good state of tune it should breeze through. Also, assume nothing with an expensive used car purchase, see the documentation or assume the seller is lying, especially for dealers.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2844_5):
Originally posted by parkerbink No idea what it's worth. Looks nice. Just say no to M badges on non M cars. I realize you've been around here for ever, but this just gets so old. It doesn't say M3, and BMW has been putting M badges on non-M cars since literally the beginning of BMW 'M'. Besides, everyone knows it stands for Marketing now.. ;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 2844_6):
Originally posted by nando I realize you've been around here for ever, but this just gets so old. It doesn't say M3, and BMW has been putting M badges on non-M cars since literally the beginning of BMW 'M'. Besides, everyone knows it stands for Marketing now.. ;) You have been here one tick longer, I defer to your greater knowledge. OTOH you know what I mean how it's irritating when a non M e46 has an M badge and they are lying to either people that don't know/care or people that know it's BS.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2844_7):
Originally posted by amg463 you paid about 12k too much. those sell for 12-14k. Agreed. Although I know of and have seen several real good condition auto m-techs selling for closer to 20k in the US. In Europe the two door m-techs have completely disappeared, and that includes 320i and 318i m-tech variants. There were several listed on mobile months ago over 20k euro, so all things considered I do not think $20k+ usd is necessarily a function of over paying.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2844_8):
As far as 'm' cars go the factory e30 m-techs earned that 'm' in front of the 325i. Probably one of the best suspensions in a bmw period. As good or better as my 06 m3 in 'sport' and better than my e34 535i with the factory m-technic suspension. The m-technic body kit is boss and makes the car look better than any e30 variant including the m3.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2844_9):
From what I've was told apparently collectors in Europe have been snatching these up and it's somewhat hard to find, especially in this condition. The dealer selling it is in Arizona and he said it has cats on it. So I have my fingers crossed it will pass emissions. I'm assuming since the car was allowed to make entry into the port, it would have had to go thru an extensive process to pass DOT standards. I tried to do some research on it before hand. But, I will admit correct information is scarce. I found a jdm auction sight, they had a couple, one in same condition, the other with more mileage. Although I agree it is quite pricey for a non"m" car. I think all things considered I paid a fair price (hoping at least). The selling dealer seemed pretty honest and was adamant that the price for these will rise in 3-5 years time due to the rarity and condition. Thanks guys for your input. Btw, anyone know how to shrink pics. I'm trying to sell some nice MIM1900s but can't attach the pics.