QUESTION ID: 3040

QUESTION:
Hey folks, Photobucket is currently holding our photos ransom, and in the process has destroyed many DIY/info/build threads. If you want to archive / back-up this information before photobucket bites the dust (or this workaround stops working), see below. Quick How-to: 1. Download "Photobucket Embed Fix" plugin for Google Chrome: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/photobucket-embed-fix/naolkcpnnlofnnghnmfegnfnflicjjgj?hl=en 2. (optional) Use google to find links to threads you want by searching: "TOPIC site:r3vlimited.com", where TOPIC is the information you want. 3. Using Internet Explorer, or Firefox, find a thread filled with photobucket pics that are no longer accessible. 4. Open the thread you want to save in Google Chrome, you should now see the photos. 5. Save this page to your computer, using Adobe Acrobat or similar "PDF creator" software. You just "print" the website to a PDF. 6. Upload the PDF so we all have access. 7. Back up the files you saved to an external drive, cloud storage, etc. Note: You will have to repeat steps 3 thru 5 for each "page" of a thread you're attempting to save. (If there is information on the other pages you want to save) - Here is a link to my google drive, which has the pages I've saved so far. https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B-PuO9ReYNk0VndXZnJQUDYtNDQ?usp=sharing I've enabled editing on the folder, but I'm not sure if you will be able to upload to it. If you are able to upload, please do so in a subfolder with your name, so we can keep track of what pages have been added. If there is anywhere we should be saving multiple thread pages, either let me know or get to it yourself! If you have a better solution for web-based file storage, please advise.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3040_0):
Originally posted by parkerbink Thanks, very helpful! You're welcome! I went through my bookmarked pages and saved just over 100 pages (650mb of files) over the past 3 hours. It's a good start, but we'll need a group effort if we want to save all the important threads.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3040_3):
Originally posted by Shangsta You are a hero. I have started archiving and will share what i have to the google drive over time Thank you! Looking through my links from 2 or 3 years ago, there were already some webpages that had disappeared. The internet is great for reference, but without care the data can be lost. Originally posted by parkerbink How do you get it to get numerous pages? I have a 20 page thread, it's getting page 1 & calling it 12 pages. Unfortunately you have to repeat the process manually for each "page" of a thread. So a 20 page thread will require 20 PDF files. And one web "page" can equal lots of PDF pages depending on size and number of pictures. IIRC you can turn up the "number of posts per page" in the forum options to reduce your page count. The full version of Adobe Acrobat can splice the PDF files together if you want to get really ambitions. I've just been saving multiple files and appending the file names with page numbers.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3040_4):
That is what I have been doing, I'm up to page 16 on that 20 page thread. Oddly, I accidentally printed one, damn thing spit out 24 pages (up to page 5 or so) so it will freaking print the whole thread. grrrr another reason to despise PB! Thanks!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3040_6):
You can change how many posts display per page in your forum settings. The max is 40 posts per page. This would reduce the page count and make it easier etc

ANSWER 5 (id: 3040_7):
Originally posted by Das Delfin You can change how many posts display per page in your forum settings. The max is 40 posts per page. This would reduce the page count and make it easier etc Good call. I'll adjust my settings for future saves. Originally posted by ELVA164 Great idea, OP! Thanks! Feel free to contribute.