QUESTION ID: 2493

QUESTION:
not sure if this has already been brought up here, but i saw this on Bimmerforums, and it made me quite sad. my thoughts are with him and his family. he is one of the most helpful folks on this forum (if not the most), and incredibly knowledgeable with the E30 chassis and M20 engine. Jim Levie, thejlevie, the guy that helped more BMW owners than perhaps anyone ever. https://www.bimmerforums.com/forum/showthread.php?2432559-Jim-Levie-thejlevie-the-guy-that-helped-more-BMW-owners-than-perhaps-anyone-ever Bimmerforums is the preferred online BMW Forum and community for BMW owners. At Bimmerforums, you will find technical how-to information maintenance specifics audio advice wheel and tire combinations and model specific details not found anywhere else. Our professionals are here to help make sure you find the answers you need to your questions and our community is here to help other brainstorm ideas for the future.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2493_0):
That's terrible. Last I recall, he sold his spec car because he fell off a ladder, and was injured badly enough that he couldn't really continue racing. Perhaps it's something unrelated to that, but nevertheless, sounds like things have taken a turn for the worse. I wish him the best.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2493_1):
Pretty sure Jim died the same day that the bfc thread was created. https://obits.al.com/obituaries/hunt...134&fhid=10433 Even though he mentioned that he was going through some sort of health issue and wouldn't be posting, I had hoped that he would be back. But it is sad to hear that the community has lost an absolutely irreplaceable font of knowledge and we should all aspire to follow his lead in helping others. I hope his family finds some peace with his departure.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2493_10):
I would "Ctrl F" Jlevie on threads to find the real answer He was so nice answering all the noob questions that he himself had answered 100s of times. Rest in peace Jim. Hopefully the platforms where he shared his knowledge are here for a while.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2493_4):
Rest in peace Jim. I got to meet him, chatted on FB and such, but he retired from racing shortly after getting my Comp license. Really sharp guy, in person, as well as forums.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2493_5):
Man, I knew what this thread was going to be as soon as I saw the date and read the title. :( RIP Jim. The E30 community has lost one of it's most knowledgeable and helpful members.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2493_6):
Very sad news and a great loss to the E30 community. Jim always the most straightforward and accurate advice. I have some of his posts printed and stuffed into my Bentley manual. He was not stingy in sharing knowledge! RIP Jim and thank you for all the energy you put into making our hobby fun!

ANSWER 7 (id: 2493_7):
Well that is very sad news. He was both a scholar and a gentleman especially when it came to sharing E30 knowledge. Literally some of the finest posts on this forum (and bimmerforums). Godspeed Jim

ANSWER 8 (id: 2493_8):
Originally posted by e30austin not sure if this has already been brought up here, but i saw this on Bimmerforums, and it made me quite sad. my thoughts are with him and his family. he is one of the most helpful folks on this forum (if not the most), and incredibly knowledgeable with the E30 chassis and M20 engine. Ohh, I've wondered about that, since he sort of withdrew from the forum with some health issues way back. I've often wondered how he was doing. Sad news. An incredibly helpful man for so many people here. His advice was highly appreciated by me.