QUESTION ID: 126

QUESTION:
Here's a strange one. My tach, fuel and coolant temp gauges stopped working on my cluster all of a sudden while driving. Then I noticed my blower stopped working... Huh? Fuse? All the fuses checked out fine. I get home (thankfully) and start troubleshooting. I first noticed the blower and tach would go back on while cranking but then stop working when the key goes back to just ignition 'on'. Everything else seems to be working. Speedometer, too... Could this be a bad ignition switch or something else?

ANSWER 1 (id: 126_0):
First thing I'd check is the unloader relays - the earth side of them is energised by the ignition switch when the starter is running, and they connect to the blower motor circuit. If there were a short in the relay, then that might explain the blower motor running when the engine is cranked but not at other times (they're meant to do the opposite, cut out the accessories while the car cranks). Strange things can happen when they go bad. e30 ignition switches also do go bad from time to time, so might be the switch itself.

ANSWER 2 (id: 126_3):
Check the bus bar screwed into the bottom of the fuse PCB. It's held in place by the screws you can see on the top side of the fuse box, in between all the fuses. If it's loose, you'll get high resistance and heating, which can lead to intermittent loss of contact. Also check the grounds in the engine bay for corrosion.

ANSWER 3 (id: 126_4):
Originally posted by EyExR Here's a strange one. My tach, fuel and coolant temp gauges stopped working on my cluster all of a sudden while driving. Then I noticed my blower stopped working... Huh? Fuse? All the fuses checked out fine. I get home (thankfully) and start troubleshooting. I first noticed the blower and tach would go back on while cranking but then stop working when the key goes back to just ignition 'on'. Everything else seems to be working. Speedometer, too... Could this be a bad ignition switch or something else? I have exactly the same issue , did you solved it?