QUESTION ID: 3313

QUESTION:
Looking at a 1989 325i that is pretty mint except for some ugly rust under the rocker panels in front of the wheel wells. No other rust as far as I can tell, including other common areas. As I understand it, this is a pretty common problem, and can be replaced by cutting out and welding in a new piece. Anyone have experience or advice to share? Unfortunately, the images I have of the rust are not very good. But here they are, along with a pic of the vehicle. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 3313_0):
That looks serious to me. A good rule involving rust is that there is always more that you cannot see, especially in a case like yours. If you have the know how and tools to repair it yourself, go for it. If you would have to hire someone to fix it, then pass. It looks clean overall, and shouldn't be sent to the crusher in my opinion. It just probably isn't a smart purchase if you can't fix it yourself, from a purely financial position.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3313_1):
Thanks for the input! Apparently the sections of rust are both about 4 inches. Not sure if that's obvious or not from the pics, but figured I'd put it out there. Probably doesn't necessarily matter, anyway.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3313_2):
Originally posted by NVJ Thanks for the input! Apparently the sections of rust are both about 4 inches. Not sure if that's obvious or not from the pics, but figured I'd put it out there. Probably doesn't necessarily matter, anyway. I have never seen rust quite so 'crackled' as the second picture shows (good part about living in southwest). Hopefully someone who is from the rust belt of the US can chime in, but I am willing to bet that that rust spot is a lot bigger than 4 inches. 4 inches may be the visible part, but it probably extends to areas that aren't visible from the exterior.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3313_3):
So instead offer less and explain why? E30's are at the youngest 25 years old so unless you are looking in a dry climate they are bound to have some rust.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3313_4):
With rocker rust that bad, you may want to pull the carpet and check the floors. Specifically on the drivers side where the wiring harness runs. Is the bottom of the gas pedal still anchored to the floor? Edit: or just offer less and get a project car!

ANSWER 6 (id: 3313_5):
I do not know how to do any kind of rust repair myself. What's the reality of the repair if it really is just the rockers? How difficult is it to have them repaired and have it done well? Is it going to cost way more than I should spend on the car? Seems to me the car needs nothing else at the moment and the asking price is quite low (about $4k). So I wouldn't mind putting some work into the body if necessary.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3313_6):
No exact figure, as I don't weld up patch panels myself, but its going to be a pretty penny. It won't be a price that is easy to digest and pay for with under the couch money. A big point we are trying to make to you is that the rust is not contained to just what you can see in the pictures.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3313_7):
Hmmm....as stated, any car in your area is going to have rust. I just depends on how much you are willing to throw at it to make it what you want. Even if it costs more on the front end, your money would probably be better spent buying a car in the south and driving it home.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3313_9):
In the rust belt the price pretty much reflects how much rust the car has. I paid somewhat of a premium for my car because it had been driven up to Connecticut from Florida a year prior. 4k for that kind of rust is way too expensive. You're much better off buying a car from the south and driving it back. When you go to sell the car, you'll be able to ask more for it as well.