QUESTION ID: 3011

QUESTION:
Got a question for all of you nutballs! (yeah, me too...) I rarely (and I mean rarely!) post but I'm a long time member/lurker on the forums. Love the community and all of the help provided here. Light background/story for this question: last year I got my hands on a neglected '89 IX manual sedan, an E30 I've always lusted after (living in the PacNW this car just makes so much sense). After a careful inspection (read on for my failure here) I purchased and quickly got it back on the road (full suspension rebuild to Bilstein sport, brakes rebuilt, new front axles, etc - you all know the drill). At the start of this summer I decided to swap out the black interior for tan from one of my other E30's and that's where the problems started. I found a large amount of rust/rot in the passenger floor pan. Amazingly it's very unnoticeable from the underside due to a large amount of seam seal and under coating that was used to hide it. The damage/rust is most of the front passenger floor pan and into the inner rocker (outer rocker looks good so far) and goes over the frame rail area for the FCab mounting points. While I'm a fair welder I'm not a master metal fabricator and I'm concerned about getting the location spot on for positioning the mount points which means professional help and $$. What do you all think? Should I put the time/$ into fixing and keeping another rare E30 on the road (I'll probably have to sell it because of the huge amount of $$ I've sunk into it) or should I part out? The drivetrain, suspension, body, interior, etc are all in really good condition. Hell, the paint even came back far better than I expected. Let me know. Maybe I should set up a vote ;-) Cheers!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3011_0):
if it was an automatic I'd say maybe. But since it's a factory manual, I'd say it's probably fixable. Or find a clean auto shell (do those even exist anymore?) with a dead drivetrain and swap it all over. There are lots of threads over the years where people have replaced the floor pans so it's not impossible. it seems like this sort of repair is super common in europe.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3011_1):
I would read the threads on here for motivation. check jgood out. I've seen some crazy rust threads and guys who started not even knowing how to weld are replacing all the rust i think you could takle it. it won't be easy and it will piss you off but id say go for it. like nando said its a factory 5sp.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3011_2):
You have to do better then that for us to comment. What's the mileage on it now? Can we see some actual pictures of the car to get an idea of the condition it's in?

ANSWER 4 (id: 3011_3):
Thanks for replies. I'll hopefully get a chance to take and post some photo's this weekend. 145K miles, bty. Guess I'll have to put together my first build/fix thread....damn I suck at documenting the work I do... Huge thanks for the push/motivation so far.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3011_6):
..yeah floor pan is one of the easiest things to replace in a car (sheet metal wise.) As some one mentioned before, that is common fix in Europe. Our European counterparts seem to view body panel replacement/repair as standard fare, whereas we just tend to say "f*ck it" and move on to a new shell. (Or racecar it...)

ANSWER 6 (id: 3011_7):
i just looked at 50 pictures of rusted and replaced floor pans... seems like an easy fix to replace the rusted areas... i can weld... so it wouldn't be beyond my scope. don't waste that car...