QUESTION ID: 1872

QUESTION:
The image of where to bend/dent the rod is wrong? Seems like you should be hitting it with a hammer on the bottom side to clear the damper. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1872_1):
Originally posted by McGyver What is this even about?!? looks like the z3 shifter mod without removing the driveshaft damper. e30 zone has them bending the shift rod to clear.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1872_5):
Originally posted by AmosCake Is it not there to help with vibration? would removing cause unwanted sound? some cars never had them and they get deleted often on others.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1872_6):
Originally posted by AmosCake Is it not there to help with vibration? would removing cause unwanted sound? I've only seen them on a handful of cars, all convertibles. They probably helped to reduce some vibration, but a that's never been a noticeable issue on the cars I've had without it. If you have clunking, your u-joints are worn out and need to be replaced. The driveshaft should get rebalanced at that point. Just remove the thing.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1872_7):
Originally posted by McGyver I've only seen them on a handful of cars, all convertibles. They probably helped to reduce some vibration, but a that's never been a noticeable issue on the cars I've had without it. If you have clunking, your u-joints are worn out and need to be replaced. The driveshaft should get rebalanced at that point. Just remove the thing. i've got one on a coupe. thing came with every extra splash panel, cover, and damper available. it's the only one i've seen locally other than on a vert.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1872_8):
Originally posted by McGyver I've only seen them on a handful of cars, all convertibles. They probably helped to reduce some vibration, but a that's never been a noticeable issue on the cars I've had without it. If you have clunking, your u-joints are worn out and need to be replaced. The driveshaft should get rebalanced at that point. Just remove the thing. Okay cool thanks for the insight!

ANSWER 6 (id: 1872_9):
Originally posted by 82eye some cars never had them and they get deleted often on others. With no ill effect I presume? Seems like a useless German engineering add on