QUESTION ID: 549

QUESTION:
My front and rear foglights were non functioning. Checked the fuses = all good. No clicking at the relay = jumped the relay and the lights came on Must be the switch! And after disassembly... yep. There's ya problem! In case others have the same problem, avoid the temptation to sand down the contacts. You'll just introduce grit and contamination - Best to chemically clean. Here's a quick home recipe for cleaning copper switch contacts. You'll need three small containers, a few small model brushes and Q tips or cotton buds. A. Acid solution Add 1 tablespoon of salt into 1 container. Fill with vinegar - doesn't matter how much vinegar, you'll need to dissolve as much salt in the vinegar as it can handle. B. Neutralising solution Add 1 tablespoon of Sodium Bicarbonate, (baking soda) to the other container. Fill with water and stir. Add more baking soda to make it cloudy. Again, the exact amount isn't important - the bi-carb solution will neutralise the acidic cleaning solution. C. Wash down Fill the last container with isopropyl alcohol (IPA) preferably 99% IPA. Disassemble the switch. If your switch contacts are greasy, dip a cotton bud into solution C. to dissolve the grease. Take the small brush or cotton tips and dip into solution A. Wipe on the contacts and agitate - may need a few dips into the solution. If badly oxidised Will take a few minutes or so. You'll need to keep applying solution A. to keep cleaning. When you're happy shake off the drips and use the brush to apply solution B. You only need to apply and agitate to stop the acidic process. Best to rinse off the part in solution C. to get rid of any baking soda residue (otherwise you may have a dusty residue). Shake off and let the part dry. Rinse & repeat for the other parts. Reassemble and you're all set! Optional to add some conductive grease to prevent corrosion & peace of mind. I'd avoid dielectric grease on these switch contacts as dielectric grease is an insulator and if it's silicone based can lead to arcing. Ready for another 30+ years.

ANSWER 1 (id: 549_1):
Awesome, it is nice to see a well documented DIY with well thought out procedures! This is definitely the right way to do it, as opposed to the more popular abrasive methods. Also, I think there is one typo. "When you're happy shake off the drips and use the brush to apply solution C." I believe that you meant "solution B" there to neutralize the acid?

ANSWER 2 (id: 549_2):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Oh, a fancy Euro switch, Mr. Two Fog Light Settings, eh? Yes, standard fancy here in Australia. I'd say we ended up with UK spec cars (RHD) and kmh clusters. Originally posted by bmwman91 Awesome, it is nice to see a well documented DIY with well thought out procedures! This is definitely the right way to do it, as opposed to the more popular abrasive methods. Also, I think there is one typo. "When you're happy shake off the drips and use the brush to apply solution C." I believe that you meant "solution B" there to neutralize the acid? Thank you, well spotted and fixed!

ANSWER 3 (id: 549_3):
I checked my foglight bulbs because the fogs were non-op. Nope, perfect. Dang. Removed the switch. Looked great. Dang. I decided to follow the directions here anyway. Boom. Front fogs work and both dashlights illuminated for the first time in my ownership. Now onto the back lights. Checked the bulbs, nope, perfect. Dang. Fiddling with the rods in the bulb holders I replaced everything. Boom! Fronts and rears working perfectly! Thanks a million for this. Attached Files