QUESTION ID: 1796

QUESTION:
I am in the process of removing the AC system from my car and I plan on keeping the auxiliary fan. I am looking for ideas on a bracket using the OEM mounting points. I can weld and have a basic idea of is needed but wanted to see what great ideas others used. Thanks Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1796_1):
Look under the m5x swaps... they have all sorts of brackets for uprated fans to mount to uprated radiators. You seem to be chasing performance by doing an AC delete, why hobble your build with a factory fan and radiator?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1796_2):
Today its predicted to be 112*. The AC has never been good enough to bring any real relief during this annual late summer Heat wave. The AC is going because its useless. For now I want to use the BMW parts and this engine runs cool with them so far. I am under the belief that the cooling system has to have matched parts. The M50 swap my other car had ran hot with a M3 track spec aluminum radiator, pusher fan, new thermostat, custom shroud and new upgraded water pump.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1796_4):
Originally posted by OSAH racing Today its predicted to be 112*. The AC has never been good enough to bring any real relief during this annual late summer Heat wave. The AC is going because its useless. For now I want to use the BMW parts and this engine runs cool with them so far. I am under the belief that the cooling system has to have matched parts. The M50 swap my other car had ran hot with a M3 track spec aluminum radiator, pusher fan, new thermostat, custom shroud and new upgraded water pump. LOL. Fix it, it's useless because something is wrong with it. Buy a vacuum pump, manifold gauges. If my AC could keep a flat black car cool in a Florida summer with this humidity and an old compressor yours can deal with your red car wherever you are (the desert? AC likes a desert more than a swamp, latent heat of condensation and all you know). What are you gonna do? Save 20lbs? Do you have your old condenser? The brackets are just bent sheet metal with C-shaped a hole in it. Easy to fab, buy some flat stock, bend it in a vise, drill some holes and cut the sides of the circles out so you can shove the rubber isolators in just like oe. Weld/rivet/bolt multiple pieces in a frame that fits where the condenser went.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1796_5):
I personally like the SPAL pusher fans. In my neck of the woods one is enough to allow the mechanical fan to be deleted as well. They come with little metal brackets that can be bent to make mounts. Believe I used a Rivnut in one spot on my E30 after the condenser was deleted, but going from memory now.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1796_6):
i have to solve for both ac upgrade and electric fan at some point. i left the original ac system in but simply left it hanging there and removed the belt.