QUESTION ID: 1967

QUESTION:
The shop that did the S52 swap on my 85 323i didn't care to route the hoses properly along the top of the tank and the feed hose was spliced with another hose which started leaking (surprise surprise). I fixed it but I'd like to replace the entire feed hose and route it properly. Looking to see if anyone has done it with the tank in place.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1967_0):
I've done it. It took some coaxing and definitely picked up some debris scraping against the top of the tank, but it was straight forward. From what I recall there is a channel there which makes the change easy. I didn't retain the protective elbow which is near the damper before the high pressure pump

ANSWER 2 (id: 1967_1):
Originally posted by Jaxx_ I've done it. It took some coaxing and definitely picked up some debris scraping against the top of the tank, but it was straight forward. From what I recall there is a channel there which makes the change easy. I didn't retain the protective elbow which is near the damper before the high pressure pump What hose did you use? I'm looking at Gates 1/2" High pressure hose but the problem is it has an OD of 19.8" while stock is 18mm. Also, how long is the length exactly ? is it just 1m (3ft)? Thanks for your help. The stock 12x18mm hose is designed for low pressure but seems to work fine with higher pressure. I suppose I could just get a new stock hose if all else fails.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1967_2):
I ordered the OE hose. 1m is just enough. I am using it for high pressure at the moment. I think the OE part is for 1 meter, and I think it is only sold in that length. I ordered from FCP "2 meters" and they sent it as two pieces, so I don't think it is on a spool. Perhaps there is an approximate equivalent imperial size, but I didn't mess with it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1967_5):
BTW, for replacement hose that's cheaper than OEM and built with US ethanol fuel in mind, I recommend Flennor hose. We use it in our restorations because the Continental and Cohline stuff just doesn't stand up to ethanol in fuel- Flennor's rated from 50-85% ethanol and we haven't had fuel supply hose issues in the past couple of years we've been using it. They make a 12x18.5 rubber and a 12x18 braided hose, both with 150psi working pressure ratings. Bel-Metric sells it by the foot.