QUESTION ID: 2682

QUESTION:
So I recently tried ordering a new euro Mtech II rear bumper from Nick Alexander BMW and Beverly Hills BMW, both in LA, and got denied even though the "main" wharehouse at BMW Germany shows 70 in stock. The parts guys at each dealer both initially placed the order for me stating it would take 3 weeks. First at BH BMW, the guy just kept telling me 3 more weeks, etc. I gave up and went over to NA BMW and placed the order there. The parts guy called me back a few days after ordering it and told me BMW Germany declined to send the bumper because it wasn't legal. I'm guessing it has something to do with the bumper not having side markers. Anyways, I went ahead and placed the order through ECS and it seemed to go through and everything. The order status showed inbound for a few days then all of a sudden it showed back-ordered. So no luck there either. Have any of you had issues ordering euro market parts from BMW???

ANSWER 1 (id: 2682_1):
Back in 2015 (iirc) BMW started blocking importation of all Euro market items unless you have a corresponding title to a Euro spec car. They cited DOT regulations and the liability associated with selling non DOT approved parts. Unfortunately it doesn't matter what the part is or how it could possibly be subject to DOT standards, they won't fill the order without a title. We had discussed creating a legal workaround with our dealer, but it never ended up panning out. Now we work with multiple suppliers in Europe to get blocked Euro parts as BMW has done a great job making buying parts a total pain in the ass. BMW's policy doesn't stop anyone from getting Euro parts, it just drives the cost up and the money straight to Europe.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2682_10):
Originally posted by svn2002s I had to register my euro car with the dealer in order to order parts. Since we are in the subject anyone knows how to ship larger pieces (Got a spoler longer that 150cms and can't get a reasonable rate). I can help with shipping 150cm or longer, as well as getting Euro stuff from EU to US. PM

ANSWER 3 (id: 2682_11):
I already bought it and is in my buddies garage in Germany. It's a Motorsport front spoiler for my e21 (grey mkt.). I usually buy stuff through him and he sends it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2682_2):
Originally posted by DealinDave@Blunttech.com Back in 2015 (iirc) BMW started blocking importation of all Euro market items unless you have a corresponding title to a Euro spec car. They cited DOT regulations and the liability associated with selling non DOT approved parts. Unfortunately it doesn't matter what the part is or how it could possibly be subject to DOT standards, they won't fill the order without a title. We had discussed creating a legal workaround with our dealer, but it never ended up panning out. Now we work with multiple suppliers in Europe to get blocked Euro parts as BMW has done a great job making buying parts a total pain in the ass. BMW's policy doesn't stop anyone from getting Euro parts, it just drives the cost up and the money straight to Europe. Wow, thank you. That's exactly the answer I was looking for.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2682_3):
If you guys are looking for Brand New / Used Parts I can help with that. Waiting time sometimes can be approx 1 month, but all mostly possible. I’m from Europe, but can ship Worldwide. PM me if interested.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2682_4):
Schmeidman. This is where I went to when BMW Blocked Euro bits. Caused a hastle trying to do a few Euro E36 coolant reservoir retrofits at the time...

ANSWER 7 (id: 2682_5):
There doesn't seem to be a blockade for Canada, ive ordered euro parts a few times without hassle. Depending how close someome is to the border (LA certainly not being close) it may be an option or having a Canadian forward the parts since the shipping from canada > usa is likely cheaper than europe > usa.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2682_6):
Originally posted by noid There doesn't seem to be a blockade for Canada, ive ordered euro parts a few times without hassle. Depending how close someome is to the border (LA certainly not being close) it may be an option or having a Canadian forward the parts since the shipping from canada > usa is likely cheaper than europe > usa. That's annoying to say the least, BMW USA is awful, and bows down only to the cult of SUV.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2682_7):
You could also order your parts via a European freight forwarder so you have a European address? Here in Australia, we have euro spec cars so we don't get asked by BMW for any sort of paperwork or VINs to order parts - no doubt European countries are the same. Ship parts to the freight forwarder using free shipping options, they then ship to you with a small commission on top. Lots of Aussies have been doing this out of the US since changes to our importation laws on small goods in the last couple of years. So many that Australia Post has set up its own forwarder in the US to get a piece of the action. It's the real world equivalent of VPN to avoid region issues with digital content on the web :)

ANSWER 10 (id: 2682_9):
I had to register my euro car with the dealer in order to order parts. Since we are in the subject anyone knows how to ship larger pieces (Got a spoler longer that 150cms and can't get a reasonable rate).