QUESTION ID: 3289

QUESTION:
Thought I'd share some pics from SIGFEST 2016 in Fort Lee, NJ last weekend.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3289_2):
Originally posted by robrez Cool, did you go out there for Sigfest, or was it just good timing? Boo for the M20 pic lol. I went out there for a few reasons. I had air fare credit I needed to use, had long time friends in NJ/NY whom I haven't seen in almost 10 years and SIGFEST. There was also the 9/11 memorial museum, times square, etc. I actually ran into someone I knew, who just happen to be staying in the same hotel, on the same floor just a few doors down. Turns out he was out there for SIGFEST as well. Apparently, the on/off rain kept many from bringing their M3's out. I'm guessing they store their cars away and only drive them under perfect conditions. Not even once a year E30 M3 specific SIGFEST would bring them out. That's why you see the non E30 M3 cars in the pics. The M20 car with the 2 tone M tech is an original low mileage japan spec car recently imported. There was also a 320iS S14 next to it but he left before I could check it out.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3289_3):
Nice, when I saw the side indicators on the M-tech, I figured it was an original M-tech car, but thought it would be an Italian M3 since it was Sigfest. Still a nice car thought. Sounds like a great trip. Originally posted by reelizmpro I went out there for a few reasons. I had air fare credit I needed to use, had long time friends in NJ/NY whom I haven't seen in almost 10 years and SIGFEST. There was also the 9/11 memorial museum, times square, etc. I actually ran into someone I knew, who just happen to be staying in the same hotel, on the same floor just a few doors down. Turns out he was out there for SIGFEST as well. Apparently, the on/off rain kept many from bringing their M3's out. I'm guessing they store their cars away and only drive them under perfect conditions. Not even once a year E30 M3 specific SIGFEST would bring them out. That's why you see the non E30 M3 cars in the pics. The M20 car with the 2 tone M tech is an original low mileage japan spec car recently imported. There was also a 320iS S14 next to it but he left before I could check it out.