QUESTION ID: 2904

QUESTION:
Hey all, It's been a while since I've posted anything significant on the forums besides my parts for sale threads, and I definitely need to update my build thread/pics, but that's not why i started this thread.. P.S.- I hope this is the right section for this thread. Recently I've started to attend college to pursuit a mechanical engineering degree, and to put it nicely, it's kicking my butt. I do have to admit that during high school I was not the best student because in my previous years, a lot of things came naturally to me. However, I knew that once i began to attend college I would have to step up my game. I have probably done more studying in the first month or so of college than I had in my entire high school career. I have taken 3 exams already and my best score of those three is a 64%...yikes. To add some information about myself, I love cars (obviously, I'm on R3v) and have been working on them since I was about 15. A couple of Toyotas, a Nissan, two subarus, and now my bmw phase (which I think is here to stay) with an e92 and a few e30s. But that's beside the point. I am unsure if a university is the right direction for me. Originally i had thought so because a mechanical engineering degree just seemed like the way to go if i wanted to work in the automotive field and make good money doing so. I have a few buddies who are into cars just as much as I am and they are headed to school at UNOH (highly rated automotive school) and seem to be more than happy with their choice. My issue is that I'm not sure that I feel like I'm fulfilling myself here at a university, and it may not be the right route for my education. I'm a hands on learner and i like to learn through experience. I'm trying to talk to a lot of people who I know that share similar interests with me and talk with them about it. I'm fortunate enough to have some money to go towards school from my family, and I'd hate to feel like I'm wasting it. Also side bar, I havent mentioned anything to the parents yet. What I'm looking for is some advice or words of wisdom maybe from some of you who are in the same position as me or have been there. Or if you've been to tech school. I know ill make less money out of tech school, but I feel like it may be the path that I really want, and if I'm happy then I'm not worried about a salary cut. Thanks in advance.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2904_0):
In need of some life advice... Stay in school kids Jk, but forreal I would say stick with school. I'm on my last year of my ME degree and currently working on my senior project. One of my group members started his ME degree, stopped cause thought he wanted hands on learning, goes to tech school for a few years, gets a job wrenching, 5/6 years later he is back finishing up his degree because he wants to get away from wrenching on cars as his career.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2904_1):
I am a recentish ME graduate, with a mathematics degree to boot. From my experience, the ME path is not for everyone. The attrition rate at the beginning (freshman/sophomore) of my time at university was very very high. I am not surprised that you are having difficulty this early in the game. 64% will not get you far. Is there something you can change to fix this? My best solution is to find motivated, smart, study buddies and work as hard as you can to thoroughly understand each and every topic. Earning the degree is rewarding, but not everyone is cut out to learn/understand it well enough. I'd sit down with yourself and really look into what self motivation/discipline you have to achieve what you are trying to achieve.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2904_10):
Originally posted by NEOe30 Thanks, I do understand that a lot of people who go into the hands on field end up killing their hobby by making it a job. I also know that getting a degree for myself would be very rewarding and probably yield a comfortable lifestyle. I appreciate the response. I used to think this too, that if only I had a financially stable job that I would be happy. Not the case, though. Don't pursue a career just on wanting to have a comfortable lifestyle, pursue a career based on what will make you happy, the money will come if you love what you do.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2904_11):
Originally posted by Rusty.Piranha I'm a firm believer in hands on experience Originally posted by Powling Long story short I read what both of you had to say, thank you. I'm only quoting blank space so I don't fill up the thread with repeat information. Rusty- what you said about paying for a degree that won't truly make me happy is part of the reason I brought this up. Like I said, I do have some money for school, but why waste it if I can use it as a down payment on a house/car/etc. I also love hands on experience. Thank you. Powling- thank you for your story, I always love to hear about the adventures that life takes people on. It's nice to hear about someone who isn't in the field and can still appreciate cars as a hobby, I know this is an ideal situation for many. I also understand that initiative and motivation can persevere over grades, but you also get graded for a reason, you know what I mean? I'm not too discouraged by them, but it does make me think.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2904_12):
Originally posted by 2mAn Auto Mechanic =/= Mechanical Engineering You can get burned out working on other peoples POS cars that you wont want to work on your own POS car. Happens way too often. Skilled Mechanics are a different story than your avg "mechanic" working at pep boys This has been very true for me.I still have three unrestored cars for over 20 years ,now my life is different and you can only do so much yourself.when I started I was restoring several cars at one time for customers and finding time on weekends for some work on my own cars ,I enjoyed each new challenge to see if I could solve the various problems for each project ,now there is not much I have not done ...l look back and wonder how I did it all...

ANSWER 6 (id: 2904_13):
Originally posted by NEOe30 Powling- thank you for your story, I always love to hear about the adventures that life takes people on. It's nice to hear about someone who isn't in the field and can still appreciate cars as a hobby, I know this is an ideal situation for many. I also understand that initiative and motivation can persevere over grades, but you also get graded for a reason, you know what I mean? I'm not too discouraged by them, but it does make me think. To be honest, from my experience you only get graded because thats the way the school systems are structured. Once I got into the real world, my high school and college averages of 70-75% didn't matter at all. Again from my experience, all that matters is you have that paper saying you graduated. On a side note - whatever field / job you want to be doing 10 years from now, start networking today with people who are already there. Network network network and you'd be surprised the opportunities that come up just because you know someone you met through networking.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2904_2):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is I am a recentish ME graduate, with a mathematics degree to boot. From my experience, the ME path is not for everyone. The attrition rate at the beginning (freshman/sophomore) of my time at university was very very high. I am not surprised that you are having difficulty this early in the game. 64% will not get you far. Is there something you can change to fix this? My best solution is to find motivated, smart, study buddies and work as hard as you can to thoroughly understand each and every topic. Earning the degree is rewarding, but not everyone is cut out to learn/understand it well enough. I'd sit down with yourself and really look into what self motivation/discipline you have to achieve what you are trying to achieve. Hey, Thanks for your response, this is the kind of thing I'm looking for. I do currently attend weekly study groups for both classes that I am struggling in, along with reviewing course material before tests, etc. My roommate is also a hopeful ME major, so we work together on a lot of things in our general classes. I have been thinking about it a lot recently, hence me coming to the forum. I guess a lot of the decision making is based on personal thoughts. Thanks again for your reply!

ANSWER 8 (id: 2904_3):
Good for you for taking a real look early on. The real question you have to figure out is, what do you want to do for the rest of your life? The world really does need good trade workers. I was an ME student, but wasnt disciplined and this was my downfall. I failed to recognize that I really liked my Industrial Engineering classes and I turned my nose up to it because it wasnt Mechanical Engineering. Looking back, I shouldve switched my major and finished strong. My talents fit well there and I failed to recognize it. A good welder can make really good money... The questions you need to answer is #1 Are you disciplined enough to change those grades from a best of 64% to at least a 94%? If not, then you might want to look at skills you are good at. I think its a misconception that you MUST have a degree in this world. Yes it helps you land a job, but there are many trades that you can earn a good living with and they dont require a degree or have the $$$$$ student loan attached to it. I currently am finishing up my Bachelors Degree at night because even though I had several professional registrations, the lack of a BA in this industry is holding me back. Im finishing it up doing a special weekend/ evening program and have 3 semesters left. I will probably owe ~$25k in student loans but I should see an increase in my salary to match that. The finance world pays well. My wife has a Masters Degree (and $$$$$$ in student loans) and I make more money than her

ANSWER 9 (id: 2904_4):
Originally posted by mbonanni Stay in school kids Jk, but forreal I would say stick with school. I'm on my last year of my ME degree and currently working on my senior project. One of my group members started his ME degree, stopped cause thought he wanted hands on learning, goes to tech school for a few years, gets a job wrenching, 5/6 years later he is back finishing up his degree because he wants to get away from wrenching on cars as his career. Thanks, I do understand that a lot of people who go into the hands on field end up killing their hobby by making it a job. I also know that getting a degree for myself would be very rewarding and probably yield a comfortable lifestyle. I appreciate the response.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2904_5):
Originally posted by NEOe30 Thanks, I do understand that a lot of people who go into the hands on field end up killing their hobby by making it a job. I also know that getting a degree for myself would be very rewarding and probably yield a comfortable lifestyle. I appreciate the response. Auto Mechanic =/= Mechanical Engineering You can get burned out working on other peoples POS cars that you wont want to work on your own POS car. Happens way too often. Skilled Mechanics are a different story than your avg "mechanic" working at pep boys

ANSWER 11 (id: 2904_6):
try find a way to make what you do for a living something you love... then it wont be work. there is nothing holding you back from what you want but yourself... make no excuses take no prisoners. persevere and press on regardless. use your resources.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2904_7):
Originally posted by 2mAn Auto Mechanic =/= Mechanical Engineering You can get burned out working on other peoples POS cars that you wont want to work on your own POS car. Happens way too often. Skilled Mechanics are a different story than your avg "mechanic" working at pep boys Thanks for both of your replies, it's a lot to chew on. I do personally know people who have gone both ways when it comes to ending up working on cars. Some can handle it, some not I guess. I do definitely have some soul searching to do and ask myself questions like the one you posed. Thanks again Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 13 (id: 2904_8):
Being out of college for 7 years I would 100% say do not go into debt for a degree you are not passionate about. Bad idea to graduate with a mechanical engineering degree and then realize you should've gone to UNOH. Tuition & room/board price for college is outrageous and the mountain of debt most graduates from 22-35+ are in is crazy. I'm a firm believer in hands on experience vs. learning about it through books at school

ANSWER 14 (id: 2904_9):
Speaking from experience, it took me a while to figure out what I wanted to do and where I wanted to go. I'm 30 now, and I went right into school for graphic design right out of high school. Studied for 3 years and got into the creative field right away. Worked a couple jobs I hated, for little pay but worked my ass off to learn and do good work. Now I'm the Creative Director for an events production company here in Toronto and have lots of freedom in my role, but only because I worked by ass off in those shitty jobs. I still second guess myself daily, whether I should have chosen a path into cars but I don't regret my decisions. Cars don't get ruined for me because its a hobby, but lots of people I know have had cars ruined for them because its their full-time jobs. Its a grass is always greener situation. My brother didn't even finish his business marketing course before he was head hunted into the marketing world. Now he's the head Director for Remy Martin cognac for all of Canada. All from hard work and continually pushing himself to learn and do good work. Long story short - hard work will always prevail over whatever your grades are. From my experience, companies don't care what your grades are, they care about your willingness to learn and be a sponge for new information and your work ethic.