QUESTION ID: 1377

QUESTION:
Hi I bit the bullet and bought a wind deflector from the stealers. But it’s a real damn tight fit. Almost like the interior has shrunk over time! Are there any tips for installation? Secondly, when you put the horseshoe down should it lock in to place? I’m concerned that the plastic tabs are just going to get smashed off, as the are overhanging the lip they rest on. And that must not happen when it’s brand new just out the wrapper! :hitler: Any help appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1377_0):
I've never had one of these, but it should just slip into the opening for the front seat belt shoulder harnesses. I know the thing folds in quarters. can you fold it to slip it in? usually too stiff isn't a problem. maybe it needs some....lube? maybe you have to get her excited first?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1377_1):
Originally posted by Sonatine Hi I bit the bullet and bought a wind deflector from the stealers. But it’s a real damn tight fit. Almost like the interior has shrunk over time! Are there any tips for installation? Wait what?! What dealer had them in stock? How much did it run?? Please PM me. But yes, it's suppose to be a tight fit and the plastic corners usually break off because people probably slam the horseshoe cover. Just be careful when closing the cover and you should be fine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1377_10):
Originally posted by Sonatine Responded to :up: If I can help further just lemme know. Can you post a pic of the padding strips that protect the side panels from damage from the wind deflector. I'd like to add some kind of protection.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1377_11):
Originally posted by Sonatine Hi I bit the bullet and bought a wind deflector from the stealers. But it’s a real damn tight fit. Almost like the interior has shrunk over time! Are there any tips for installation? Secondly, when you put the horseshoe down should it lock in to place? I’m concerned that the plastic tabs are just going to get smashed off, as the are overhanging the lip they rest on. And that must not happen when it’s brand new just out the wrapper! :hitler: Any help appreciated. What did it cost? Do you mind sharing? Any photos? Thanks!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1377_2):
They should be able to lay in place. its a tight fit but make sure who ever redid your seats and put your interior back in did it right. should be snuggle not not to hard to put into place. I have two verts with two different oem windscreens should be fine

ANSWER 6 (id: 1377_3):
Originally posted by Mike36 Wait what?! What dealer had them in stock? How much did it run?? Please PM me. But yes, it's suppose to be a tight fit and the plastic corners usually break off because people probably slam the horseshoe cover. Just be careful when closing the cover and you should be fine. No the dealer didn’t have it in stock, but they just a quoted 5-7 day delivery from BMW Germany to my door. Will try and PM you when I get a sec. Originally posted by flyboyx I've never had one of these, but it should just slip into the opening for the front seat belt shoulder harnesses. I know the thing folds in quarters. can you fold it to slip it in? usually too stiff isn't a problem. maybe it needs some....lube? maybe you have to get her excited first? I don’t know about folding in quarters, folds in half though. But yeah, I’d expect it to just slip in to place. Also there are little felt pads that look like they are gonna rip off if I force it in. Originally posted by fight4life28 They should be able to lay in place. its a tight fit but make sure who ever redid your seats and put your interior back in did it right. should be snuggle not not to hard to put into place. I have two verts with two different oem windscreens should be fine I wouldn’t know how to make sure the seats were put back right... I’m trying to get the contour of the deflector frame to follow the curve of the interior so it’s all flush. But one side is always out of alignment. Secondly, if I get the little tabs ligned up on one side, the other side is overhanging. My gut tells me if if slam the horseshoe down the tab will break off, like so many I’ve seen on eBay etc. I don’t want the horseshoe to fly up while driving, or even worse, the deflector to blow off in to the ditch on its maiden voyage after my titanic investment. Geddit? ;)

ANSWER 7 (id: 1377_4):
Alright, it’s in. I left it in place last night and, as if my magic, it all went well this morning. Then I managed to spray it with screen wash when I put the wipers on I might not take it out now, given the faffing about, which means my kids will never get to go out in it for a drive again. Ach well more fun for me!

ANSWER 8 (id: 1377_5):
Originally posted by Sonatine I might not take it out now, given the faffing about, which means my kids will never get to go out in it for a drive again.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1377_7):
Mine was a tight fit and when I removed it, I saw that it damaged the rear panels. I bought mine used, and the felt pads were long gone, but I doubt they would have help much because the apparent flexing of the chassis caused pretty deep depressions in the panels.