QUESTION ID: 2946

QUESTION:
Three weeks ago, I was driving my freshly restored '87 325is along a two lane country road. I had spent all last summer working on the car and had over $20K in the car and parts. It was the first drive after almost all of the work had been completed, and the car ran beautifully. A tandem axle dump truck approached me from the other direction and when it was about 150 feet away, it blew it's front left tire. The explosion was loud enough to bring people out of their houses. It blew the hold downs to the hood off and the hood flipped up. The driver was not only unable to control the truck, but the flipped up hood made him unable to see. The truck careened into my lane and came at me. With only seconds to make a decision, I went to my left and attempted to pass the truck in his lane. Debris from the truck hit my car as I passed him. The sound of screeching tires, grinding steel and the decelerating diesel engine made a roar. I was almost past him when his right rear tire hit my right rear quarter panel. The force spun my car around about 150 degrees. The truck had crossed his lane and run off of the road. It was all over in a minute. The impact tore the trailing arm and rear wheel out of my car. My brand new Bilstein shock was laying in the weeds. Now my car sits in the parking lot of a local body shop while everyone argues as to whether the car is totaled. I had collector car insurance with an agreed upon value that should cover me, but when the accident happens, you find that there are still all sorts of ways to get screwed. That's another story. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 2946_0):
Oh man that's so painful to look at ESP knowing all the work you put into it. Best of luck with insurance but be glad you had collectors insurance. You shouldn't have a prob getting paid out for it

ANSWER 2 (id: 2946_1):
My Wrecked 325is Jesus! What are the chances? Hope you are OK. This really sucks. Curious to hear about the insurance issues (when you are ready to share). My 90 325is is in the shop now getting bodywork restoration, and I'm counting fully on an agreed value insurance policy to cover me in a situation just like yours. Good luck friend. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 2946_10):
Thrilled to learn that you walked away in one piece. The good news is that you will come out of this well covered. The lesson to everyone restoring an e30, get an agreed value policy.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2946_3):
Truly unfortunate, but this is the way of letting bronzit owners know that they should: But seriously, I hope you get an outcome you can be happy with when all is said and done.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2946_5):
Wow that sucks, Im sorry for your loss. If your willing, Id like to hear your story on collector car insurance as many of use it now for these things.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2946_7):
Originally posted by coldweatherblue Glad you're okay and hope insurance gives you what it was worth. Rarely does insurance simply give a policy holder what they "deserve," instead we are typically forced to fight a fair payment despite coverage paid in to under the expectation of fair compensation after a mishap.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2946_8):
Thank you everyone for your comments. I have been in a few motorcycle and car accidents that threatened severe injury, but this was truly a near death incident. I will let you know how this plays out. One problem is the body shop. When the car was dead on the road, it had to be relocated. A rollback came and I sent the car to a local body shop. This shop has refused to touch the car. The adjuster says that the damage is about $7,200, but he only spent about 15 minutes looking at the car in a rain storm. I quickly identified many items that he left out of his estimate. The body shop needs to get the car in the air and start taking measurements. They need to itemize the things that they think need to be repaired. Their list will certainly be more comprehensive.....and more expensive. But they tell me that if the car is totaled, all of their work will be unreimbursed. They think that the insurance company may total the car. But neither the adjuster nor I think so. The damage is extensive, but very localized. It doesn't appear to be deep. I hear that the NADA value of my car is about $5,600. Based upon that measure, the car is totaled. But my agreed upon value in my policy is $21,000. The next problem is that while the rear quarter panel has a current BMW part number, it is on back order. It may take months for a quarter panel to arrive and no body shop wants to take in a car if the parts are not available. Finally, Grundy Worldwide appears to want to close out this claim ASAP. I'm afraid that they will not hold the claim open until the back ordered body parts arrive. My worst fear is that I will send the car to another body shop when the quarter panel arrives, only to find more damage and an insurance company that refuses to re-open the claim. I will try to negotiate once more with the owner of the body shop to obtain a comprehensive estimate of damage. If that fails, I will have the car transported to my shop and I will try to get it back on four wheels. I don't want to total this car.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2946_9):
Wow, that's a horror story. I'm very glad you came out of it OK. Could have been MUCH worse as you know. Sorry about the insurance issues. I hope they are worked out quickly and to your benefit.