QUESTION ID: 1385

QUESTION:
So my vert is on Ground Control 400f/600r springs and koni shocks. The handling is nice, although a bit bouncy but there is still a lot of body roll. It's not the wet noodle convertible thing I am feeling, just mostly plain old body roll when I go into a curve. I know a convertible is never going to handle like a coupe or four door but I would like to get it to handle a bit flatter without making the springs any stiffer / ride harsh. Any suggestions? What are people here running? It's all stock sways and new OEM bushings right now. I know the vert already has like 21 mm front sways right? Would an aftermarket 22mm front make that much of a difference? Also, I know most people reinforce the mounts for heavier sway bars, is this necessary for just the occasional spirited drive?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1385_0):
Originally posted by Mwishlist Would an aftermarket 22mm front make that much of a difference? Also, I know most people reinforce the mounts for heavier sway bars, is this necessary for just the occasional spirited drive? My ‘92 vert is on stock springs with Koni STR.T shocks/inserts. All stock swaybars and mounts. I intend to do the control arms and bushings at some point. I think there is too much roll in corners, but good ride quality. I’ve been thinking about beefier swaybars too and like you, I’m concerned about breaking subframe tabs. These are good questions and I’d like to know the answers. Subscribed. Thanks!

ANSWER 2 (id: 1385_1):
I would definitely reinforce the mounting points when going to bigger bars. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. One of the benefits of aftermarket bars is they are often adjustable. I went with IE bars and like their reinforcements. I have the 19 mm rear bar. I tried their 22mm front bar but it hit my X brace. I spoke with them about it and then went with their 25mm hollow bar that has a different bend and clears the brace. Both my bars are currently at the softest settings. I really like the improvement but still plan of going the next step of fine tuning with possibly tweaking tire pressures after doing some auto cross. One thing I did was replace the supplied front end links with stock type Meyle HD ones because the supplied links would develop some play fairly quickly that resulted in a clicking noise at times. It wouldn't be a big deal on a track oriented car but I found it irritating. Another interesting option could be to keep the stock 21 mm bar (or maybe a 20 mm bar from a coupe/sedan) but go to M3 strut type mounting and then just add an adjustable rear bar. Overall I like the setup I have for my car. Another option might be to copy the SPECE30 setup. Just be aware of potential interference with some bars if you have an X brace.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1385_10):
Originally posted by Mwishlist Which brand? Do you have an x-brace? Also, did you do the install? WHat you describe sounds like exactly what I am looking for but I'd love to get a before and after comparison. They are H&R. No x brace installed. The strut bar made the biggest difference of all, that would be the first thing i'd do.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1385_2):
Have you tried dialing up your Koni's ? Im on stock bars with H&R cabrio springs and 16" BBS RKs and corner quite flat. I do push ramps and curves but am not trying to hang my ass out, so driving style weighs in.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1385_3):
Originally posted by Bearmw I would definitely reinforce the mounting points when going to bigger bars. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. One of the benefits of aftermarket bars is they are often adjustable. I went with IE bars and like their reinforcements. I have the 19 mm rear bar. I tried their 22mm front bar but it hit my X brace. I spoke with them about it and then went with their 25mm hollow bar that has a different bend and clears the brace. Both my bars are currently at the softest settings. I really like the improvement but still plan of going the next step of fine tuning with possibly tweaking tire pressures after doing some auto cross. One thing I did was replace the supplied front end links with stock type Meyle HD ones because the supplied links would develop some play fairly quickly that resulted in a clicking noise at times. It wouldn't be a big deal on a track oriented car but I found it irritating. Another interesting option could be to keep the stock 21 mm bar (or maybe a 20 mm bar from a coupe/sedan) but go to M3 strut type mounting and then just add an adjustable rear bar. Overall I like the setup I have for my car. Another option might be to copy the SPECE30 setup. Just be aware of potential interference with some bars if you have an X brace. I do have a x-brace, completely forgot about that, so that’s good to know. So do you have a Vert that you track? On the Konis I thought about dialing those up but I was thinking the sways may be better long term to flatten it out. Not really sure as I’m not a suspension set up guy, but as far as the driving style I want it to corner well too, not hang the ass out.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1385_4):
I don't track my car but drive it pretty hard on occasion on all kinds of surfaces so supspension compliance is still very important to me. I have plans to run some autocross to simply have fun and learn it's limits a bit better (not to try to be competitive).

ANSWER 7 (id: 1385_7):
I have the garagetastic x-brace and sing it's praises often. It made a huge difference in tightening up the front end. Jeff, I'll try dialing up the konis and see where that gets me. Any other info is always welcome.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1385_9):
Originally posted by e30rapidic I have the 22/19 mm bars and a strut bar. Handles great with little body roll and zero cowl shake. Which brand? Do you have an x-brace? Also, did you do the install? WHat you describe sounds like exactly what I am looking for but I'd love to get a before and after comparison.