QUESTION ID: 1974

QUESTION:
I'm looking at a set of Remotec A wheels and am curious if they are legit or reps. There's not a lot of info on them online but they are super nice. any help I'd appreciated!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1974_0):
They already look like reps of BBS Style 5s. I've never heard of the brand so I can't speak to the reliability. Do you have any higher-resolution photos? Can't make out any details from the photo you posted.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1974_1):
Originally posted by Panici They already look like reps of BBS Style 5s. I've never heard of the brand so I can't speak to the reliability. Do you have any higher-resolution photos? Can't make out any details from the photo you posted. I'll add everything I have here, the photos I have are screen shots from instagram. From what I've gathered, they are real old school wheels.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1974_10):
Originally posted by McGyver I think this is the answer OP was looking for. ESM is a company that only makes replicas of other company's wheels. AC Schnitzer had original wheel designs, but some (many? all?) were actually cast by Ronal. BBS, Enkei, Borbet, and many others all made similar basket weave designs. They aren't reps of each other, but do look similar. ronal weaves are the oem+ go to. have a 15in set sitting in my folks attic lol. edit : everyone swaps the caps for bmw roundels. might do the same. but i'll do it on a spare set.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1974_4):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK Remotec is a legit old school German brand, are you asking if Remotec's are reps themselves, or if those wheels are reps of a Remotec? I'm asking if Remotecs are reps themselves. The wheels shown are legitimate remotec wheels.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1974_5):
Originally posted by Baticry30 I'm asking if Remotecs are reps themselves. The wheels shown are legitimate remotec wheels. reps of what ? you're not making sense ... all weaves from that era are going to look related.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1974_6):
Originally posted by 82eye reps of what ? you're not making sense ... all weaves from that era are going to look related. I guess the question is, who originally made the basketweave? Was it BBS? And does that make every other brand of 'weave a replica?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1974_7):
Originally posted by Panici I guess the question is, who originally made the basketweave? Was it BBS? interesting. i wouldn't mind knowing. i think it'd be hard to prove who was first with a weave design. all i know is they are all an homage to the bicycle type spoked wheels. Originally posted by Panici And does that make every other brand of 'weave a replica? i'd say not, as there are different patterns and designs. technically even a rep/copy has to be 25% different in some way to be legally sold without infringing copyright. in some cases original mfgrs will either grant the right to copy or, lease/sell it for another mfgr to make the product.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1974_9):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK Not a rep company I think this is the answer OP was looking for. ESM is a company that only makes replicas of other company's wheels. AC Schnitzer had original wheel designs, but some (many? all?) were actually cast by Ronal. BBS, Enkei, Borbet, and many others all made similar basket weave designs. They aren't reps of each other, but do look similar.