QUESTION ID: 1080

QUESTION:
I'm 2.5 years into my M3 rebuild (http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=319121) and its nearly go time on suspension. The repainted shell will be back in a matter of weeks. All dents out, all new paint, wheel wells re-blackened, etc. I already have new brake pads/rotors (OEM), refinished wheels (OEM 15" basketweaves), new tires, new wheel bearings, and all new suspension hardware (bolts, washers, bump stops, spring pads. dust jackets, etc), and new Sachs rear shocks, and the factory springs appear to be in good shape...BUUUT the factory front strut inserts are NLA everywhere I've checked. I'm going to be running an OEM Evo 3 lip (no Evo 2 chin spoiler) with OEM Evo 3 undertray, and the motor will be freshly rebuilt... so i reeealy dont want to scrape. The car has been a factory restoration so far, with a few modernizations (RMT 200 VW/Audi radio, upgraded RSMs, Evo 3 bits). I'm torn between trying to keep the suspension factory (finding the closest front strut to factory i can, for use with the factory springs) or shrinking the wheel gap a little. So, what do you guys recommend? If i wanted to stay factory, is there a front strut that i can use that equals or approximates the elusive OEM front insert and plays nice with the factory springs? If i lower a bit, what's the most popular setup? For reference, if i were to select an ideal "stance", this would be it....

ANSWER 1 (id: 1080_0):
Well. your poster car has been lowered by quite a bit. Mine has a TMS J Stock set up on it which lowers to a similar stance to the picture car. the oil pan is vulnerable. I would run a stock ride height if I was retaining the stock wheels. If it sees no track, keep the ride height close to stock. m

ANSWER 2 (id: 1080_3):
i would do bilsteins or even better would be a set of koni's. sounds like you want your car to be as stock as possible. personally, an aftermarket suspension upgrade (struts and h&r sport springs) would be more desirable than oem. in this area, oem really isn't that good.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1080_4):
That car is most likely on coilovers and what appears to be 16" BBS I think it was running the same suspension I had in my white M3, Bilstein Nurburgring edition coilovers which were very unforgiving in the Massachusetts which has horrendous roads. My red one has Turner J stocks that ride better here

ANSWER 4 (id: 1080_5):
You stated you're keeping it mainly oem and don't want to scrape, so just use the stock set up with your choice of koni/bilstein/sachs, etc. You can also easily swap out oem springs for H&R oe sport or sport for a mild drop. Another option is getting 16" evo wheels, which would visually fill the gap more and stay with the evo theme.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1080_6):
Theres documentation on s14 showing that bilstein shocks have too big of bumpstops. When you have them out of the car, trimming the bump stop is easy and then the shocks will perform great. If you dont, you are going to have a harsh ride when paired with sport springs.