QUESTION ID: 2355

QUESTION:
Scanned my e30 ads, thought i'd share. Sorry some don't line up too well. But they are out of a magazine. Also the seconed to last is a postcard. Enjoy!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2355_10):
All pictures are missing since the forum update. I got to go back and edit the threads. It will take me a while, so I'll probably have to do it on the weekends

ANSWER 2 (id: 2355_2):
Sighhhhhhhhhhh Having been a child of the 80's, this brings back fond memories of my mom bringing home our 85 325e in 1984. The M20B27 was so silky smooth, you couldn't even tell it was running. Her BF at the time, had a new Fiero GT that looked badass but he still liked the 325e better, everybody did. It was a big leap ahead of the cars that were being built at the time. These cars are now 30-35 years old and still going strong, still being displayed, still talked and written about, etc. not a lot of cars from the era can brag about that. Some people say it's just hype but these cars have always been popular just for different reasons. Thanks for posting Jason.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2355_3):
Awesome post as usual. How did you come by so many of these? One thing that gets me is the giant walls of text. Today's adults can barely be bothered to read 4 incomplete sentences (see: the recent BMW ad posted by Metallated) I took my E30 out today on an 'errand'. Stares everywhere I went (and honestly, it's maybe a 7/10 example). The F and G series may get more looks on Instagram but IRL nobody gives a flying fuck about them..

ANSWER 4 (id: 2355_4):
Thank you so much for posting this stuff. I too am a child of the 80’s and fondly remember the never ending Car and Driver articles that just could not stop telling the world that these really are the ultimate driving machine. It’s really sad to see how the automotive industry has evolved. (Well, its how people have evolved, but that’s another conversation isn’t it.)

ANSWER 5 (id: 2355_5):
Originally posted by nando Awesome post as usual. How did you come by so many of these? One thing that gets me is the giant walls of text. Today's adults can barely be bothered to read 4 incomplete sentences (see: the recent BMW ad posted by Metallated) I took my E30 out today on an 'errand'. Stares everywhere I went (and honestly, it's maybe a 7/10 example). The F and G series may get more looks on Instagram but IRL nobody gives a flying fuck about them.. Pretty much sums it up. Stopped by the dealer yesterday in the M3 and everyone from Foreman to techs came out and spent about 20 minutes checking it out. Newer ///M owners didn't understand why everyone was checking out the "old car with a bodykit" on it :sigh:

ANSWER 6 (id: 2355_6):
Welcome everyone! Nando, I got them off of Ebay through the years. I have one M3 ad that I misplaced along with a Kamei pamphlet. But I'm sure they'll pop up when I'm not looking for them.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2355_7):
These are great. My dad has (or had) an advertisement from somewhere for an M20 24 valve head from Hartge I think. I've never come across one in the wild so I don't know if it was actually a thing, but it was pretty cool.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2355_8):
I love old auto adverts. I used to collect old Honda ads back in the day. Thanks for posting these! It’s sort of bittersweet I suppose. To see where BMW was and where they are now. I guess that goes for the entire industry. Every “Morning Shift” I read on Jalop makes me die a little more on the inside. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk