QUESTION ID: 751

QUESTION:
First off let me just say I'm new here so please forgive me for any dumb questions (I tried searching the forum for a new owners thread but couldn't find anything, am I doing this wrong?) I have experience working on cars but nothing this old or German so I have a few questions about parts and repairs. -Shop manuals, which one if any is an absolute must have? -when comparing parts prices online, which websites are your go to when comparing prices on similar quality parts? Don't want to use the shittiest eBay parts but am also all about saving a few bucks where I can. -other than the timing belt and fluids what else is an essential preventative maintenance? -essential e30 specific tools? Thanks in advance and I look forward to many years of E30 ownership!

ANSWER 1 (id: 751_0):
Congratulations and welcome! This is an excellent place to come for advice. If you are able to search effectively, just about any info you need can be found here on R3V. Here are my recommendations:Manual: Bentley, BMW E30 - 3-Series Restoration Guide by Andrew Everett Parts listings and exploded diagrams: Realoem.com Parts suppliers: FCPEuro, ECStuning, Blunttech, Turner are some of the suppliers I use regularly , Amazon and Ebay can also be surprisingly good PM recommendations. Don’t put yourself or others in danger with your new old car. Do these things:TIMING BELT (TB): Change the TB idler pulley, water pump, (and fan clutch if needed) and all v-belts while doing this. All them are exposed when doing the TB. HOSES: Change ALL of them, starting with the fuel lines in the front and rear of car. Many old e30s still have their original hoses. Change them now before you wind up stranded or burn your car down. Be careful and choose high pressure-rated fuel injection line! Low pressure replacement lines will fail and possibly cause fires. Check your BRAKES and address any issues now. SUSPENSION: Check and replace as needed your tie rod ends, bushings (lollipop and subframe), ball joints, shocks and struts, swaybar end links and mounts, etc. TIRES: Are your tires worn? Aged beyond 10 years? If so, change them now! FLUIDS: Brake, power steering, coolant, oil, transmission, differential Running rough? Check your VACUUM lines for leaks and replace as needed CLEANLINESS: Clean up all the filth around, on and under your engine. Then trace and fix leaks. Tools: If you have the toolkit under your trunk lid, many of the tools in there can be usefulAll the metric sockets for 1/4 and 3/8 drive, torque wrench You’ll need a special tool to remove the fan and fan clutch. It’s a flat bar with an notch and a hole in it. Not expensive. Required for TB change. 14mm? and 17mm? hex drivers (check the sizes before buying) - like big Allen wrench fittings that go on your socket wrenches. Use these to change your differential and transmission lubes. (Cars vary, so check yours before buying). When changing transmission and differential lubes, remove the fill port plugs first to ensure that you can refill Use eye protection! What did I miss, guys? Enjoy your new to you e30!

ANSWER 2 (id: 751_1):
jgilber0 , excellent advice. I'd like to second the use of realoem. The parts diagrams are super helpful. Getting part #s is very easy. Additionally, running google searches for the part #s obtained from realoem usually results in very nice photographs from FCPEuro and ECSTuning.

ANSWER 3 (id: 751_2):
Thanks! This is the quality of advice I came here for! When I was researching the TB job I saw some sources suggesting to always replace the cam seal as a PM, while others were saying not to bother if it's not yet leaking. Thoughts?

ANSWER 4 (id: 751_3):
I did not mess with the cam seal at that time. i think I had my mechanic change it when he did a valve adjustment, but I can’t remember. Glad to help! I have received a lot of great advice here and I’m happy to pass it on. Enjoy your e30!

ANSWER 5 (id: 751_4):
After stripping a couple of the bolts on the bell housing, I would highly suggest picking up a set of inverted torx sockets if you have any intentions of removing the transmission. You can use a 12 point socket, but make sure it's hammered on very well. I'm going to harbor freight tomorrow to get some (thank goodness they are still open). Despite still having noobie status I've spent all of my vacations from college coming home and resurrecting a 325e and doing a full 325is swap on it. I've touched every single bolt on the car and have had my fair share of screwups. Hopefully I'll be turning the key and bringing it to life soon but feel free to PM me if you have any other basic questions.

ANSWER 6 (id: 751_5):
Originally posted by Lefty_lifestyle44 I would highly suggest picking up a set of inverted torx sockets if you have any intentions of removing the transmission. Thanks for the advice! Definitely gonna need those sockets down the road when I do the manual swap!