QUESTION ID: 3374

QUESTION:
I must have tripped and fallen into middle age, because there's a 325is being sold by one of my neighbors and I want it. The M3 was my dream car as a youngster, replaced by the Z3 as a teenager so the appearance of this car parked in front of my house for sale for $1,900 was a sign. But there's some things that give me pause. I don't have pictures because it's not yet on Craigslist but here's the rundown: 1. The body is in good shape. Little to no rust. The paint is not original, it's a sloppy black job over the original, which I'm guessing was the bronze from places where it's flaked. Lame aftermarket chrome wheel well molding and trim. The trunk seal leaked so the battery compartment has some rust. 2. The engine runs smooth as anything. I revved, drove it hard and broke hard, and there were no knocks, ticks, clinks or anything that gave me a pause. 3. Current owner did the suspension and timing belt recently. 4. About 134,000 miles. 5. The electrical is pretty messed up. I guess some previous owners attempted to install a stereo and basically broke it all. The current owner did a fair amount of work but the tach is still not working and the overhead panel has some odd behaviors (lights randomly lighting up, the check light coming on for seemingly no reason). I'm having trouble assessing if getting a complete cab wiring replacement is even possible. 6. No ABS. Haven't looked into this. I'm guessing it's the controller in the engine compartment from the looks. 7. No AC. I haven't checked to see if the condenser and hoses are actually gone. 8. Some interior wear. A few tears in the leather. 9. Current owner has the front spoiler off, but claims the foglights don't work. Anyway, there you have it. Never having owned an E30 and likely not able to see another in my area, I'm left quite indecisive. Perhaps my larger issue is the marital strife caused by having this jacked up in the garage for weeks at a time... I can try to get some pictures tomorrow. EDIT: 325is. It was a typo. One gets excited. Also added the mileage.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3374_10):
Originally posted by Das Delfin also... the battery compartment didn't rust because of a trunk seal. It rusted because batteries vent sulfuric acid and are supposed to have a tube which leads to a plastic box. But most people who replace their batteries don't know about this. Interesting, I didn't realize that. The owner explained that he found it after a hard rain with water in the the tray. He replaced the seal, so I guess there's that, at least. Originally posted by dnguyen1963 You can post the seller's address here and see how long that car will remain on the market. Common...it's $1900 for an E30 with a strong running engine. I think I'll get it. Seemed like a good deal but I don't know shit from Shineola about the model. It wouldn't be the first time I had a lemon and took a loss on junking it. They are also selling a '94 530i (E34, I think?) with around 60k on it. So if you're interested... Originally posted by sonomabimmers buy that mother fucker for 1500 and have some fun. then go looking on here for all the little fun projects to get it back to where you want it. 325is with that low miles and an un beat m20 are becoming harder to find these days. welcome to R3V Thanks. I'm sure I'll be back. I'm shitty at haggling, plus they're my neighbors.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3374_11):
Originally posted by Das Delfin also... the battery compartment didn't rust because of a trunk seal. It rusted because batteries vent sulfuric acid and are supposed to have a tube which leads to a plastic box. But most people who replace their batteries don't know about this. FWIW I disagree somewhat with this theory. Seen many late model convertibles (no battery in trunk) with this same issue. This might be a contributing factor but it seems like a manufacturing flaw that allows moisture to get trapped in that area near the rear tow hook. Originally posted by stinkytaco Interesting, I didn't realize that. The owner explained that he found it after a hard rain with water in the the tray. He replaced the seal, so I guess there's that, at least. I typically find the taillight seal is more common to leak, but could also be the trunk gasket. There is a drain at the bottom of the pocket that often times gets clogged.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3374_2):
Come on guys.....quit messing with the noob... Its 325is, not 325si. For $1900, unless it doesn't run at all, you should just buy it. End of discussion.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3374_3):
Originally posted by mbonder Come on guys.....quit messing with the noob... Its 325is, not 325si. For $1900, unless it doesn't run at all, you should just buy it. End of discussion. Right, I made a typo. I know it's an is. I'm new to the e30 game, but have done my reading. The consensus seems to be buy. From my reading there seems to be a fine line between overpriced and a great deal, however, so I wasn't confident. I wasn't entirely sure how possible it was (is) to resolve the issues it has, the electrical and a/c especially seem like a bitch. An expensive one. It's a project, but I think I can probably handle it. Probably.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3374_4):
Electrical and A/C can be two of the most time-consuming and frustrating areas if you're doing the work yourself. Nothing wrong with it, just fair warning. I've gone through both with my car. I made it to the other side and my car is glorious now, but it was not all sunshine and rainbows.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3374_5):
A/C is a semi big project but isn't super expensive if you DIY. You just have to shop around. I would rather redo an A/C system than rebuild an engine. Electrics seem tricky but you can find the electronic troubleshooting manual on here and use a volt meter to trace your signals. Take a systematic approach and it's not hard.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3374_7):
buy that mother fucker for 1500 and have some fun. then go looking on here for all the little fun projects to get it back to where you want it. 325is with that low miles and an un beat m20 are becoming harder to find these days. welcome to R3V

ANSWER 8 (id: 3374_8):
also... the battery compartment didn't rust because of a trunk seal. It rusted because batteries vent sulfuric acid and are supposed to have a tube which leads to a plastic box. But most people who replace their batteries don't know about this.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3374_9):
You can post the seller's address here and see how long that car will remain on the market. Common...it's $1900 for an E30 with a strong running engine.