QUESTION ID: 2670

QUESTION:
This is the worst show. I hope it doesn't catch on. There is an e30 at the end of episode one and the beginning of episode 2. You can guess what happens.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2670_0):
Yeah, no. Seems stupid. "Elite street racers from around the world test their limits in supercharged custom cars on the biggest, baddest automotive obstacle course ever built."

ANSWER 2 (id: 2670_11):
Its clearly a show thats catered to the drift culture. The drag racers and auto-x champ had no chance doing things they've never spent time doing.... **SPOILER ALERT*** it was nice to see a V6 Mustang run a better time than the Millionaires Lambo though

ANSWER 3 (id: 2670_12):
Originally posted by 2mAn Don’t take the show too seriously and it’s aiiigght I thoroughly enjoyed it but then again I do love American Ninja. It was fun to watch how the different types of cars performed. My favorite of the bunch was the Japanese drifter, the French dude, the guy from Texas and the Brazilian kid and his dad. Its too bad that they decided to included that water obstacle, I think the competition would been more competitive without it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2670_13):
The girl in the pink E30 was actually doing very well until she had to go through the water. A mechanical problem, not her fault. Same with the very first contestant in Episode 1. He lost over 1 minute time due to the water.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2670_3):
I watched the first episode while on the treadmill. Meh. I felt bad for the guy that won 44 (autocross?) championships. I'm sure he's a good driver, but he totally botched it there. Cringe worthy.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2670_5):
I've had a handful of people tell me to watch this and I haven't yet...not sure I care too. Seems like they mixed Fast and Furious with American Ninja Warrior.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2670_6):
It’s alright. Some drivers had no idea what they were getting themselves into. Some really annoying and ruined the show. it gets better later but the bridge balancing was stupid.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2670_7):
Finally watched the first episode and had to watch the first few minutes of the second... because E30 Don’t take the show too seriously and it’s aiiigght

ANSWER 9 (id: 2670_9):
the commentators are fake prompter reading shit stains but the show is alright. when the 90 year old black guy fucked up hard was funny he came on like he thought he was god. dumb ass.