QUESTION ID: 589

QUESTION:
Here is a detailed instructional for installing a hidden dash cam in your e30. Thankfully I haven't needed one yet, but I had a friend recently get charged with reckless driving for "drifting" because his belt was screeching in his car. Thankfully there was security camera footage of the entire incident proving he did not drift, but this made me decide to finally install this. There were several factors that went in to deciding on what dash cam to purchase, but ultimately I wanted something completely hidden. I hate a dash cam in the windshield, and I didn’t want people to always be asking questions about it and why I use one etc. So if you like me, want a hidden dash cam, keep reading. Here is what it will look like when your install is completed: You will need to purchase the following: Mobius action cam - I chose lens D for wider angle (https://www.spytec.com/mobius-wide-angle-lens-d.html) 8 Inch Lens Extension Cable Mobius Super Capacitor Class 10 Micro SD card, recommend 64gb 12v to 5v converter Tools you will need: Wire cutters Soldering iron Razor blade Drill or dremel Hot glue gun and glue I chose the mobius 1 because it is a simple, compact, reliable camera that is easy to dissemble to move the lens out of the body and replace the battery with a capacitor. I did not want a lipo battery baking in my car during the hot southern california summers, so I replaced it with a capacitor which should never need replaced. The capacitor supplies just enough power to allow the camera to save the video before shutting off. The camera also needed to allow the lens to be moved outside the body. This probably can be done with other fancier and cheaper dash cams that have the typical dash cam features, but I new for sure it would work on the mobius. There is a newer mobius maxi camera out now that records in 2.7-4k. I have no experience with this but from light research it appears that a 2in (5cm) extension cable will work (longer may not work given resolution) and that you can set it up similarly. The capacitor is different though so if you purchase the maxi be careful to purchase the correct capacitor. You will need a 12v to 5v step down. You can find these on amazon with varing degrees of quality, and some already have the output as a mini usb cable. I found one that had good reviews, and soldered all my own connections. I purchased this one (https://www.amazon.com/DROK-Electric...tronics&sr=1-4). Set up your camera with the extension. I put tape on mine to prevent the connector from bending as much. Also put a piece of the foam in the lens hole. Use a voltmeter to find 12v switched power under your dash. I found an unused plug on c302 (F) and hooked up to that. There is a ground right next to this connector. I zip tied the converter under the dash and then ran the wires up the A pillar (remove the trim) and behind the visor trim panel all the way to check panel lights area. I left the visor trim panel in place during the install but did remove the visors to allow it to flex down for running the wires. Mount the lens about 1 inch away from the edge of the rubber mirror grommet. I put mine too close and you can just see the edge of the mirror support in the image. Mark the area and then cut the hole out. The diameter should be exactly the size of the largest part of the lens. I used a large drill bit and then used a razor blade to finish it up. A dremel tool would also work and be easier. My trim panel covering was separating so I did the composite material first then the lining after with the blade to match the hole. Once the hole is complete run a bead of hot glue all the way around the lens of the camera, and stick it in place so it is level with ground, and hold it place. Now just use some double sided sticky foam for the camera body and stick up somewhere you can still reach the sd card. The velcro that came with the camera may work but I didn’t try it. I doubt I’ll ever need to take it out. Here are some links that may be helpful to setting up the camera. You’ll need to download the appropriate software. https://www.mobius-actioncam.com/downloads-info/ https://www.buymobius.com/pages/how-to-configure-the-mobius-actioncam-for-use-as-a-dash-camera Mobius Mini Action Cam Pro - Dashcam setup and review https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2016/mobius-mini-action-cam-pro-dashcam-setup-and-review tl;dr: Watch the example/demo video below to see how the Mobius performs in a variety of driving conditions: For the past few years, I've seen countless 'fail' videos, linked videos on reddit, etc. which show both the utility and entertainment value that comes from a dashcam—a camera that records everything that happens in front of your car while you're driving.

ANSWER 1 (id: 589_10):
Hi, I'm also installing a dashcam in my e30 and I need both a constant 12v and a switched 12v (for parking surveillance) So if the F is a switched 12v, do you happen to know there's any constant 12v in the c302 socket? Also, what kind of connector did you use for the wire to hook it up to F? Thanks in advance, this post is going to save a lot of time

ANSWER 2 (id: 589_11):
Originally posted by mnmnmmm_ Hi, I'm also installing a dashcam in my e30 and I need both a constant 12v and a switched 12v (for parking surveillance) So if the F is a switched 12v, do you happen to know there's any constant 12v in the c302 socket? Also, what kind of connector did you use for the wire to hook it up to F? You probably have already figured this out by now... I don't think there is constant 12v to c302. I think there is constant power to the glove box, radio, and possibly a couple other areas. Just pull out your voltmeter and you probably can find a spot pretty quick. I used a 3.5mm bullet connector size (specifically EC3 RC battery connector female end). However, any auto parts, Lowes etc should have some bullet connectors that should work fine. I soldered mine but you could get crimp ones as well. Good luck!

ANSWER 3 (id: 589_2):
Wow this is incredible. I've been wanting a dash cam for forever but like you I hate the way they look sticking out. I'll be using this guide! Thanks a bunch

ANSWER 4 (id: 589_3):
Originally posted by Metallated Wow this is incredible. I've been wanting a dash cam for forever but like you I hate the way they look sticking out. I'll be using this guide! Thanks a bunch This, exactly. Thanks for the write up.

ANSWER 5 (id: 589_5):
Man thats slick! I installed a dash cam on my car last year and tucked it as high up as possible so that it wasn't nearly as visible. Major brownie points for tucking that sucker instead the trim :up: :up:

ANSWER 6 (id: 589_6):
Well done. You might have gone overboard on finding "ACC" - switched power - radio harness is the easiest for most(and the check pannel I would guess has one as well) - but nice install.

ANSWER 7 (id: 589_7):
Originally posted by george graves Well done. You might have gone overboard on finding "ACC" - switched power - radio harness is the easiest for most(and the check pannel I would guess has one as well) - but nice install. Thanks! Yeah I had lots of other options for power, and I seriously considered the check panel, but I don’t like tapping wires. And this was seriously very easy and didn’t include any wire tapping :)

ANSWER 8 (id: 589_9):
Just an update on the reliability: no problems after >4months of use. I drive my car as a daily, and currently its >100 degrees daily in southern California. I'm really glad I don't have a Lipo battery sitting in my car 24/7 ready to catch fire. Highly recommend the capacitor mod to the camera.