QUESTION ID: 293

QUESTION:
I am starting to get all the bits for my 325is, and I am asking all you guys, and girls? just what I should do to my car for fun on the street, and for some fun at the stadium with the BMW club? I guess I could tell you all the stuff I am thinking of................. Front: New lower control arms, AKG off-set bushings, new strut mounts, koni sports, (I love koni's I have run them on my 914s for years) new control arm mounts and links, and vogtland springs. Rear: New AKG bushings every where, Vogtland springs, Koni sports, new swaybar mounts and links, new driveshaft components (they are all tired I am sure) maybe new wheel bearings too? Also I have heard that with Koni's I need to get a different mount for the trunk area, and if so any? I have had some really cool Porsche's in the past that I have run in POC, and PCA events, but this is the first BMW that I have ever put together so??????? OH P.S. I have already had my fenders, rear quarters rolled.

ANSWER 1 (id: 293_0):
It looks like you're off to a solid start with the parts. Replacing all rubber parts with urethane is not absolutely necessary, and worsens cabin noise. I'd get some Z3 reinforcement plates for the rear shock mounts. These mount inside of the trunk, over the rear shock mounts. The BMW part number is 51718413359, but other vendors like Bimmerworld and Turner have made their own versions of the plate. They're around $30 a pair.

ANSWER 2 (id: 293_2):
bounce Eggo Did you get the parts list I PM'ed you with all of the part numbers? I'm doing the same thing. Entire Suspension rebuild with Ireland Engineering Stage Three Springs plus top adjustable Koni's on all four corners. Including all of the wear items and little rubber bushings and maybe one of those new pine tree air fresheners. Double check my part numbers to make sure they fit your application. I believe it's a pretty comprehensive list. Let me know if you find anything that I may need to add? Another mod handling addicts look to do is swapping out the E30 steering rack 4 turns lock to lock for a 95 m3 rack only 3 L to L. Happy Carving.

ANSWER 3 (id: 293_3):
So I bought some parts today. I got the vogtland springs, the M3 offset front bushings ( I opted out of the urethane ones), Meyle strut mounts, lemforder lower control arms, IE shock mounts for the rear, and the Koni Sports. I still have a lot more to buy, but have to do it in pieces, so I still have money for fun. Next week I will work on the rear bushings, and sway bars. I have a really great mechanic here in SD that will install it all for me. As a matter of fact, any one else that needs a great mechanic here just let me know, and I will give you his name and number. OH yeah! When I was ordering the Koni's, shox.com told me that Koni just raised their prices by 20&#37;. So any one buying Koni's better hurry up before the stock on hand runs out on these distributors. Thank you for your list too Franz! Cheers!

ANSWER 4 (id: 293_4):
I think you'll be really happy with the M3 CABs, I've seen more urethane bushings fail than anything else. Quite a few cars have come into our shop and the bushings are completely scragged. Of course NH roads don't help this... Looks like you're off to a good start, I'd consider just getting a sway bar kit too, it will give you a lot more flexibility in the long run.

ANSWER 5 (id: 293_5):
I'm in the same situation. So far I have: springs/shocks rear street IE bushings (trailing/subfr.) front/rear shock mounts (rear HD) sway bar links/bushings stock spring pads I'm concerned about all the small things like bump stops, washers+nuts My rear shocks have bump stop looking rubber things on the rods, front don't have any bumpstops on them... is there any way I can check if they're actually inside the shock? (they're not billies nor Koni's, but came in KW/ST kit) I hear some things about Z3 reinforcement plates... where do they mount and any mods. necessary for them to mount? Any other washers or nuts I need? I went to real oem, but it is very confusing and I don't want to get something I won't use.