QUESTION ID: 121

QUESTION:
Getting ready to test fire this car but want to be sure where engine bay fuel lines go. at the bottom of drivers fire wall there are 3 stacked in a row. Just need to know which is feed and which is return if you have that info. no lift so trying to save myself a crawl under the car to trace out

ANSWER 1 (id: 121_10):
Originally posted by reelizmpro It's a decent write up but I don't know how accurate the diagram is. He marks the lower separate hose as the return but I believe it's the canister vent return line as I remember changing out the top 2 lines only. I'd have to pop my hood to verify what's what. Well if you dont mind... its easier than tracing on my back under the car.

ANSWER 2 (id: 121_3):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Replace one at a time and you won't mix them up. I got the car with no hoses just hard lines. I would have marked the hardlines if I did it

ANSWER 3 (id: 121_4):
I might be wrong but I remember the fuel feed and return share a plastic clip underneath and the vapor line is clipped alone closest to the edge of the car.

ANSWER 4 (id: 121_5):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I might be wrong but I remember the fuel feed and return share a plastic clip underneath and the vapor line is clipped alone closest to the edge of the car. This is what im working with... so the 2 clipped together are feed and return? Where does the vapor line normally go? Evap?

ANSWER 5 (id: 121_6):
I had the same issue and found conflicting information online. I just went under and traced them back, it's also possible that in the past 30-40 years they were switched at some point.

ANSWER 6 (id: 121_7):
E30 Fuel Hose Replacement (Engine Bay) - https://classicbimmerbits.com/e30-how-to/e30-fuel-hose-replacement/ E30 fuel hose removal and replacement from Classic Bimmer Bits, your go-to source for E30 How-to and DIY

ANSWER 7 (id: 121_9):
It's a decent write up but I don't know how accurate the diagram is. He marks the lower separate hose as the return but I believe it's the vent line to the charcoal canister as I remember changing out the top 2 lines only. I'd have to pop my hood to verify what's what. Edit: just popped my hood to check and can confirm the bottom separate line is connected to the charcoal canister. The top 2 lines which are in the same bracket are the supply and return lines. ​ Top is return. Middle feed. Bottom is the separate vent line to the charcoal canister. ​