QUESTION ID: 3066

QUESTION:
I have been searching craigslist daily for the past 3 weeks looking for a clean 1990+ e30 coupe (325 is preferred) and I came across this post: https://greenville.craigslist.org/cto/6179191717.html I have been talking with the owner for a week, and I got his price down to $4800. I live about 200 miles away in GA so I had him take it for a pre-purchase inspection at a BWM mechanic and this is what he found: "Car runs and drives good, clutch and synchros good. Steering wheel is about a qt turn off, but drives straight. SRS light is on, but my tool to get the codes broke years ago. A/C does not work, belt is missing but compressor does turn ok by hand. Did not see any evidence of frame or wreck damage. There are a couple small spots of surface rust were the rocker panel's have been bent or scuffed up. As you know the dash top is cracked up and the drivers seat is rough. All lights, wipers, windows etc working. Suspension in good shape. No wet oil leaks but does have some build up from oil stand and or timing cover gaskets seeping over time. Has the usual E30 gas tank dent in the right side tank." Some of that stuff like the small bits of rust and SRS light has me feeling kinda concerned. Not because it seems dangerous, but I feel like for $4800 an e30 should have less issues. Am I being too picky? Is this a good deal? Thanks in advance!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3066_0):
Originally posted by Contra (impartial to 318 vs 325, although 325 is preferred) What? Impartial means you treat all items to be considered equally, and value none above another. Also, probably repainted, baked interior speaks to how the car has been cared for, and the inspection does not seem at all like what is normally written for a PPI as it fails to cover several important aspects of the car. Pictures of the undercarriage are a must if buying remotely, especially when the rear valence appears to have been changed/altered, unless it's not an original M42 car. I feel like we probably have a thread for this, and if we don't we should have a "should I buy this POS clunker I found buried in bat guano in a cave in southern Afghanistan for way too high of a price?" thread.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3066_1):
Yeah, not sure why I wrote impartial. I edited that bit out. In terms of stuff missed in the PPI, what else should I have asked for? Either way, I think I am going to pass on it. I figured I'd just check here to make sure I wasn't being picky because I don't really have any idea how to value the car. When I look at e30s for sale, I usually find either $10,000 and in spotless condition, or $2,000 barely runs POS. I wasn't sure if this was on par for a $4800 car, but I feel like it probably isn't. Thanks for the advice though

ANSWER 3 (id: 3066_10):
How lazy do you have to be not to straighten the steering wheel? about as lazy as not cleaning the inside of the car for photos I suppose. I am also very skeptical of photos taken when car is still wet from being washed, tends to hide imperfections. Id rather see it after its been washed AND dried. Still not as bad as photos of them covered in soap suds! Looks alright for a 26yr old car. But like all 26yr old cars, expect to find issues, but thats part of the fun.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3066_11):
Yeah, I think I might pass on this one and continue saving. I just hope the price doesn't continue to rise and I end up kicking myself for skipping this one.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3066_12):
Originally posted by agent I'd have passed as soon as I read "Fresh Paint last year ($1000)” My very first E30 had a Macco paint job. Was half-decent when I purchased it, looked like absolute total garbage 8 months later. Found out they did zero prep work. Paint underneath still had clearcoat and was smooth. Paint chips came off inches long. OP there's better to be had for 4800. I'd walk.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3066_13):
Originally posted by Blau My very first E30 had a Macco paint job. Was half-decent when I purchased it, looked like absolute total garbage 8 months later. Found out they did zero prep work. Paint underneath still had clearcoat and was smooth. Paint chips came off inches long. OP there's better to be had for 4800. I'd walk. Yeah you're probably right about the paint, and I am going to walk away. I think I might try to find a plastic bumper coupe that doesn't run for cheap, since I plan on doing a swap anyway. Just need to find one with a relatively clean body.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3066_3):
Originally posted by ahrensNW Seems like a really, really good buy for 4800 I thought that at first, but the PPI has me a bit concerned. Also I found this:http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=402611 in the classifieds for just a bit more, so I'm wondering if $4800 is worth it, or if I should just save a bit more up and get something cleaner/swapped. I'd really like to swap an S/M52 into whatever I buy at some point.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3066_4):
Originally posted by Contra Yeah, not sure why I wrote impartial. I edited that bit out. In terms of stuff missed in the PPI, what else should I have asked for? Either way, I think I am going to pass on it. I figured I'd just check here to make sure I wasn't being picky because I don't really have any idea how to value the car. When I look at e30s for sale, I usually find either $10,000 and in spotless condition, or $2,000 barely runs POS. I wasn't sure if this was on par for a $4800 car, but I feel like it probably isn't. Thanks for the advice though Buy whatever car that you find with the cleanest body/paint, least rust. The interior, engine, suspension, brakes are things you'd want to replace/upgrade and will probably need to soon anyway in most E30s for sale. That's what I did eight long years ago, and it served me really, really well.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3066_5):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Buy whatever car that you find with the cleanest body/paint, least rust. The interior, engine, suspension, brakes are things you'd want to replace/upgrade and will probably need to soon anyway in most E30s for sale. That's what I did eight long years ago, and it served me really, really well. That's pretty much how I came to find this car. I was planning on driving out to see it this weekend, but I wanted a PPI before I went because im pretty green when it comes to appraising older cars. "a little bit of surface rust on the rocker panels" doesnt seem like a huge deal to me, but for $4800 I figured the car I was buying would have no rust at all. Also the whole no A/C thing kind of sucks since I live in the south and the summer is just ramping up. My main concern is getting too excited about this car and finding out I paid way too much. I honestly look forward to working on the car and getting the suspension and body sorted before swapping it. I already have another car and a motorcycle for dailies, so I'm getting a bit giddy about starting a project, I just don't want to over pay.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3066_6):
I'd have passed as soon as I read "Fresh Paint last year ($1000)” and saw the picture of the rear seat the seller couldn't bother to wipe down before taking pictures of it to go in a for sale ad. But that's just me...

ANSWER 11 (id: 3066_7):
Originally posted by Contra That's pretty much how I came to find this car. I was planning on driving out to see it this weekend, but I wanted a PPI before I went because im pretty green when it comes to appraising older cars. "a little bit of surface rust on the rocker panels" doesnt seem like a huge deal to me, but for $4800 I figured the car I was buying would have no rust at all. Also the whole no A/C thing kind of sucks since I live in the south and the summer is just ramping up. My main concern is getting too excited about this car and finding out I paid way too much. I honestly look forward to working on the car and getting the suspension and body sorted before swapping it. I already have another car and a motorcycle for dailies, so I'm getting a bit giddy about starting a project, I just don't want to over pay. Then skip it. I think it looks like a decent deal. But not the best in the world. Set a budget for the car and for the work you're planning to do to it. If you think the overall budget will make this the car you want it to be, buy it.. prices are going up, as long as it's not a rusted bucket, it'll hold value. Sent from my Pixel using Tapatalk