QUESTION ID: 1433

QUESTION:
Hi, I'm new to the forums, but I'm looking for some help on my 325ix. I recently did an auto-to-manual swap on my car, and it went well, transmission works and everything, but the shifter feels pretty sloppy. I know it is from the mounting arm at the rear of the transmission, with the 2 studs that connect to the body. However, I've been trying to find a replacement bushing for it, but all I can find is the entire mount, which costs $200, being a "genuine BMW part". So I'm wondering if anyone else has had this issue and whether or not you've had luck finding a replacement bushing rather than dropping a large amount of money on this small mount. Mount in question: ​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1433_1):
Do you have a link to an OE alternative rather than the genuine BMW one? I don't mind buying the whole piece but I still don't want to pay $200 for it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1433_2):
Originally posted by 325ix_STI Do you have a link to an OE alternative rather than the genuine BMW one? I don't mind buying the whole piece but I still don't want to pay $200 for it. turner/ecs has the poly version for $125. garagistic has a version under $90 in both poly and oe rubber. fcp had them under $100 for a while. pelican has poly under $90 and oe bmw for $135. literally most places you look are under $200. edit: if that bushing is shot you may need to replace more than just that for the shifter. i'm assuming you replaced/rebuilt everything else. ok, you might be screwed. when looking direct i see none listed in stock anymore. just the rwd version and the expensive one you found. there are cheap versions but they are not in trusted brands. can find uro etc but not oe or equivalent. even rock auto is out of stock, i'm not seeing much for ix at all. i am fast beginning to understand your frustration. you might be spending $200 or living with it as is.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1433_3):
I appreciate the help. I'll probably just live with it until I get some more money put together. Trying to sell all of the drivetrain pieces that I took from the automatic so possibly after that, but thank you again.