QUESTION ID: 3428

QUESTION:
Here goes, I'm looking to get back into the e30 game and I want to autocross again.i saw this ad on Craigslist and was able to check out the car. The owner is a real nice guy and he's is on the forum so he may see this post but he's not on it to often anymore he says. It's an 89 325i coupe with 260k and a salvage title. It seems to be in great mechanical order. The car shows its age of course exterior wise and it has been replayed a different color. Originally bronzit and now red. Paint job wasn't the best or now isn't in the best shape. The panels have some things here and there.doesnt have full interior but has corbeau how ever you spell it racing seats. My concerns is that it has 260k. He recently had timing belt done and I don't see signs of leaks which is great.but can I push this hard autocross or will I need a new motor or rebuild eventually (as in sooner then later) The car doesn't have a muffler and it's registered in another state. The car is now in California but I'm not sure once putting a muffler on it will pass smog as I'm not so familiar with smog cause recently moved to cali myself. I don't want to have to deal with once putting a muffler that it won't pass smog for other things and etc. I just want opinions in if this would be a decent purchase. He would let it go for 4.5k but I'm looking more around the 3k area. Is his asking fair? It does have kw suspension. Lsd. Wheels. But I would need to get new tires. Again worried about 260k also. I know track cars shouldn't worry so much about the exterior but I also like to have a clean car at the same time so that's what I'm considering myself. Here is what the post on Craigslist said HID beams and fogs urethane bushings(control arm, subframe, trailing arm etc...) KW V2 coilovers ESM wheels Corbeau seats Timing belt, water pump, thermostat replaced Dec 31 2014 Comforti chip(aka Turners)

ANSWER 1 (id: 3428_0):
Sounds high to me. I would probably not buy a car with a color change. It just looks crappy if not done right. Of course you can't expect perfection for just a toy/driver-level car, but I'd say that one just has too many things against it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3428_1):
the kw v2 coilovers are worth a good amount. Its gonna be a pain in the ass to smog i think. I think the price is right if you don't dump too much into getting it street legal. its probably cheaper to buy a shitty truck and trailer to bring it events. haha