QUESTION ID: 1917

QUESTION:
Hey All, This winter I have way too much crammed in my 1.5 car garage. Two cars, three motorcycles, and two spare engines. I had to relocate some tools and cabinets to the basement to make that happen. Trying to work away at my miata's rear subframe, and it makes me SO nervous working beside the freshly painted E30. I hung a moving blanket from the ceiling between the cars, but that won't stop a breaker bar if it comes free while I'm disassembling the rear suspension. Not to mention the two motorcycles leaning towards the E30 propped up on wood blocks... Anyways, the garage is 1.5 cars wide in the front, but narrows towards the back with a couple of notches out of the wall. I've measured it out, and it looks like a compact 4-post lift like the Peak 407-P (https://www.babco.ca/Peak-407-P) would fit taking up slightly less then half the available space. Something like a single-post would also work, but they are prohibitively expensive, and would probably make me just as nervous with the car stored on there. The other big problem is the 9-foot ceiling. Even if I install a "high lift" garage door, I won't be able to stack two BMWs with the sedan-type roofline. The numbers are REALLY close to being able to store something with a low roof like a miata or C5 corvette underneath. It would come down to lift lock position, if the cars are lowered from factory height, and perhaps a set of storage wheels with aired down tires. Oh, and the garage door would have to stay closed, so the bottom car would have to be slid in from the side. I really just want to get the E30 out of harms way. I could have it up on the lift out of the range of swinging tools, welding sparks, etc. Even if that means I can't store much under the raised car. As to where the three motorcycles (and the motorcycle lift) can fit, I haven't quite figured that out yet. I do have a shed in the back yard, but I would want to insulate it before putting motorcycles with good rubber in there for storage. The spare engines are another question mark. They take up a big cube of space. Too heavy to move into the basement, and ground is too soft to take them to the shed. Perhaps I could redesign my workbench and store them underneath? I suppose the other option is to find offsite storage for the E30 in the wintertime. But I have trust issues now that I've spent nearly 10 years working on it, it's irreplaceable for me. Much more comfortable peaking in on it every morning when I grab my lunch from the garage fridge. Anyways, that's a lot of rambling and thinking out loud. I'm looking to hear from anyone who has a cramped working space. I could potentially look at having the lift put in during the later part of 2024, so I would have a better workspace for next winter. I REALLY want to tear into the E28s floors, but that kind of project is better suited to working on over a long winter then during the limited nice weather we have in the summertime. Here are some pics of the garage with various projects. As you can see, I've added a lot of usable space by reorganizing and relocating equipment. (And I think there is more to be had)

ANSWER 1 (id: 1917_0):
It seems like there just isn't enough space for a lift. Honestly, it probably makes sense to focus on clearing out some of the stuff versus taking up the limited vertical space. Insulating your shed for the motorcycles seems like a really good option. Probably cheaper than a lift and shouldn't take too much effort. Moving the engines out to the shed is also a great idea, could you use 3/4" plywood to get over the soft ground?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1917_1):
Originally posted by McGyver It seems like there just isn't enough space for a lift. Honestly, it probably makes sense to focus on clearing out some of the stuff versus taking up the limited vertical space. Insulating your shed for the motorcycles seems like a really good option. Probably cheaper than a lift and shouldn't take too much effort. Moving the engines out to the shed is also a great idea, could you use 3/4" plywood to get over the soft ground? Ah, the bigger problem with the shed currently is that it's filled with my late father's vintage motorcycles. I think there are 8 or 9 in there at the moment. Off the top of my head, there is a makeshift table that could be scrapped to fit one motorcycle. And there is a near-bare frame that could be sold. The majority of the vintage bikes need to be sold off to generate some money for my mom's expenses. I'm probably keeping three out of the lot. I had planned on getting them running with the basement full of spare parts we have before selling, but perhaps I should think about selling a few as pre-restoration along with the corresponding NOS parts. Realistically, there is only so much time and it seems I have a mounting number of my own projects.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1917_11):
Hey Panici, make any decisions yet? My neighbor's is a two post, so my late-night google was mistaken, I texted him to send me the model info. He has a cherry 1936 ford rod on top and a fully restomod custom 1948 ford on the bottom, sitting for years without issue. I think it's a good option if you haven't pulled the trigger yet, will get more info soon.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1917_12):
Originally posted by E30Bastard Hey Panici, make any decisions yet? My neighbor's is a two post, so my late-night google was mistaken, I texted him to send me the model info. He has a cherry 1936 ford rod on top and a fully restomod custom 1948 ford on the bottom, sitting for years without issue. I think it's a good option if you haven't pulled the trigger yet, will get more info soon. Still leaning towards the Peak 407-P. It's the narrowest 4-post lift I can find from any manufacturer. It will fit in there nicely, at less then half the width of the space I have available. (I will need to change the position of spare engines and such.) I like that there is an optional kit to move it around on wheels when unloaded. Important to keep the space flexible. And the four post design isn't relying on concrete anchors to keep the E30 from falling off like a single or two post hoist. I imagine it'll be quite stable with the E30 weighing less then 40% of it's stated capacity. It's very unlikely that I'll be able to stack two cars with my 9' ceilings even if I have a high-lift door conversion installed. So this would purely be to get the E30 out of harms way while I work on other projects on the ground/jack stands as per usual. Expensive proposition, but considering how much love I have into the E30, one that looks to be worth it for my piece of mind. Garage is packed full until the springtime anyways. Will be attempting to drop the miata subframe as one piece within the next few weeks to replace the fuel tank. Don't have enough room at the moment to break it into components for bushing replacement like I had hoped. With the E30 so close by, I feel like not doing any work. Even the moving blanked I hung between them isn't instilling confidence. Would be looking to get a lift installed in summer 2024 at the earliest, so I still have some time to decide.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1917_13):
The even more expensive devil's advocate option: Can you add any more garage/shed/covered parking space to your property (keeping in mind the costs, space, city setbacks, etc?) If I recall correctly, I remember you having a longer driveway, is there any way to add more garage to the front of your garage, essentially making it longer? Or other creative options?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1917_2):
Ive got a two car and I was looking into this company called Maxjack that makes a lift for 10ft ceiling applications. You obviously cant stand up underneath it but you can sit on a stool and work. The setup is pretty compact and would probably fit for you. It's a little more on the expensive side. Shop MaxJax Portable Two-Post Car Lift​

ANSWER 7 (id: 1917_3):
Originally posted by Dj Buttchug Ive got a two car and I was looking into this company called Maxjack that makes a lift for 10ft ceiling applications. You obviously cant stand up underneath it but you can sit on a stool and work. The setup is pretty compact and would probably fit for you. It's a little more on the expensive side. Shop MaxJax Portable Two-Post Car Lift​ I'm looking for a lift that keeps weight on the suspension for storage (something that supports the car via the wheels.) I do like that MaxJax idea for working on a car in a tight space, although I question their claims of portability. It seems it is anchored into the concrete floor. How many times can you tension and slack a set of concrete anchors before they loosen up? Not something I want to find out while under my car. I'm content working on the ground, it's actually quite good exercise getting up and down from under the car to grab parts/tools.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1917_5):
I go through this every couple months or so. It keeps me active clearing stuff out of my garage. Storage is everything. Even then, I have to purge regularly.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1917_6):
Panici, first of all I love the custom color. I'm sure you floss it well. There is a solution for you if you have 9 + ft. My neighbor has done the same. Garage stacker/parking magic, google this. Will make current and future projects a breeze as well. I am sure you can imagine the possibilities, E30 or not.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1917_7):
Originally posted by E30Bastard Panici, first of all I love the custom color. I'm sure you floss it well. There is a solution for you if you have 9 + ft. My neighbor has done the same. Garage stacker/parking magic, google this. Will make current and future projects a breeze as well. I am sure you can imagine the possibilities, E30 or not. Thanks! The brown suits the car for sure. Those parking magic lifts appear to be the single-post variety. On top of the cost, I would definitely have trust issues relying on the concrete anchors to keep my car safe. Which is the main reason I'm considering a four-post. Even the small ones rated at 6k LBS should be rock solid with a little sub 3000lbs E30 on there.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1917_9):
Originally posted by twright Whenever anyone discusses car lifts, my mind cannot forget this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OKfqjA6mhGo It has scarred me for life. Seems staged. Lifts have safeties to prevent failures like that, and also, who puts a tool box directly under the car? Notice the clapper at the start says 'Lowes Kobalt" on it, suggesting it's a toolbox ad.