QUESTION ID: 1902

QUESTION:
Car wouldn’t pass BAR, it’s a completely stock S50 in a 318is When the ref plugged in a scanner to see live data, it showed the car was traveling 18mph while at idle, the speedo reads right, what would be causing this issue? ​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1902_0):
I had this same issue your dme is probably from an automatic . Same thing happened to me so I had to buy a manual dme and then he passed it . He also made me have the glovebox taken apart so he could see the dme part number and vin

ANSWER 2 (id: 1902_1):
I searched up the vin and the car it came from was a manual, i’ll call bmw in the morning just to confirm. In the case that it is a manual ecu, is there anything else that would effect speed that the ecu is seeing?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1902_2):
Originally posted by Brixk I searched up the vin and the car it came from was a manual, i’ll call bmw in the morning just to confirm. In the case that it is a manual ecu, is there anything else that would effect speed that the ecu is seeing? no. not without the wheels turning.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1902_3):
Originally posted by Brixk I searched up the vin and the car it came from was a manual, i’ll call bmw in the morning just to confirm. In the case that it is a manual ecu, is there anything else that would effect speed that the ecu is seeing? Did they do the sniffer test? Mine was reading high with the auto dme also . Then the manual dme made the emissions come down also . 🤷🏻‍♂️🤷🏻‍♂️ a fresh oil change helps the emissions go lower and hot cats

ANSWER 5 (id: 1902_4):
so I called bmw to decide the vin and turns out the ecu is in fact from a manual car. as for the sniffer test, I did change the oil (5w-40 castrol euro) a week prior and the car burns SUPERR clean, so there was no issues smog/emissions wise. although the car could benefit from a new 02 as the scanner also read that the 02 was staying at .4v and not fluctuating.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1902_5):
Hmmm I’m not sure then . I failed because of the dme the first time . Then changed the dme and passed the second time . Luckily that was my only correction . The tech told me don’t worry no one passes the first try although I was very close . Good luck!! When they pass you and you pay the sticker fee is a great feeling