QUESTION ID: 2688
TOPIC: ews_bypass

QUESTION:
Picked up my E30 last year, so this year at SEMA, E30's have been on my radar! There were a few there but only had the opportunity to take photos of two. First one: I honestly walked around this E30 and was impressed, but then took a second glance at the engine bay and noticed something different. There's a F80 M3 motor in it as well as the interior is money. Oh and apparently it was built buy a bunch of students which I think is pretty rad. Here's a link the an article I found on /DRIVE about the car: This Student-Built, SEMA 2018-Bound E30-Gen BMW M3 Packs the Heart of Its Modern Descendant http://www.thedrive.com/news/24525/this-student-built-sema-2018-bound-e30-generation-bmw-m3-packs-the-engine-of-a-2018-m3 Honest Assembly dropped in a 425-hp engine from the F80 M3 into what's arguably the greatest sports compact of all time. The result? Magic. Second one is pretty nuts, LTO and an artist name Khyzyl teamed up to make this surreal E30. The car looks straight out of a game - The Hoonigans did a little small video on it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AFPSoG0_KFM Are louvers going to make a come back? Haha. Thoughts on both E30's? Yay or nay.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2688_0):
The white m3 is a cool build for sure, but I don't know why they chose the S55.. seems like it compromises performance for fuel efficiency. If they want to do something forced injection they should've taken the s85's v10 and boosted it

ANSWER 2 (id: 2688_1):
Originally posted by Metallated The white m3 is a cool build for sure, but I don't know why they chose the S55.. seems like it compromises performance for fuel efficiency. If they want to do something forced injection they should've taken the s85's v10 and boosted it Oh no, I'm getting good milage in my 425hp+ aluminum block turbo 6 cylinder E30 M3... What a travesty.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2688_11):
I don't get on the forums much. So sorry for the late replies on my car. I'm happy to address some of these questions. Originally posted by Metallated The white m3 is a cool build for sure, but I don't know why they chose the S55.. seems like it compromises performance for fuel efficiency. If they want to do something forced injection they should've taken the s85's v10 and boosted it The S55 is a very sophisticated engine and I don't see it being a compromise in any way. It enjoys advanced cooling, closed deck, forged crank, valvetronic, vanos, direct injection, and one of the most advanced wet sump oiling systems out there with an electronically controlled variable volume pump. Plus it can be tuned to maintain street manors and gobs of power. I'm a fan of the S85, but that's been done. Our team set out to accomplish something new and we did. Originally posted by SGT StudMuffiin Dont forget they also sound like ass Originally posted by BeirBrennerE30 As a former M4 owner... the sound is just terrible. And I don't care what everyone says, it still has noticeable turbo lag. That chassis deserved a high revving NA V8. I beg to differ. We followed the exhaust design Active Autowerke uses to cancel out the terrible pulses of the S55 exhaust. Ours uses a Burns Stainless mufler, so it is a bit louder than the Active one here https://youtu.be/hFRbP-Xf5dE As for turbo lag, the tune produces almost full torque at 1800-2000 RPM and builds power all the way to 75000. We worked with BPM Sport to develop 3 tunes (on a hidden switch) to go from 360hp to 550hp/560hp to the wheels. It is an instant monster at any RPM or gear. Originally posted by JimmyP I hope they didnt ruin real E30 M3s for those exercises Yes, it is a real M3. "Ruin" is relative. It is infinitely more fun to drive than an S14 car, to me at least. To each their own, but this was my taste. Originally posted by SOneThreeCoupe The first car is nice but the engine choice bores me and the wheels don't fit right. A lot of work no doubt, but work in the wrong direction. The second car looks nothing like one of that Khyzyl guy's works. Hugely underwhelming in anything other than ultra-dramatic lighting. I spend all my time obsessing over quality, so these grandiose builds that seem slapped-together don't toot my horn. Not sure what you mean by the wheels not fitting right. Sounds like a difference in taste. I can assure you the fitment is tight. https://www.instagram.com/p/B0PAU_bA..._web_copy_link The wheels were chosen because they combined elements of the Nogaro Evo 3 wheels and the early BBS E50 DTM 18" centerlock wheels. Both are favorites of mine. Slapped together? I can't speak for Khyzyl's car, but ours was a full bare metal restoration with every possible nut, bolt, rubber, and plastic component replaced. The body work was done by a shop that recently won the Ferrari nationals. The car has thousands of hours into it. Is it perfect, no, but they weren't from the factory either. Originally posted by HCMW Adam Not strut brace in the white one? Just being picky. The work looks great, I bet it is a blast to drive. There is extensive chassis bracing welded in under the skin. We paid special attention to tying the torque box to the firewall, inner wheel well and strut tower. That being said, it will get a strut brace at some point.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2688_12):
So things I would do differently but that doesn't mean its wrong we all have different tastes. That being said I think it looks like some awesome work and it would definitely be something I would love to drive!

ANSWER 5 (id: 2688_13):
Damn, harsh. I don't see what's so wrong with the white M3, other than maybe purists hating the fact that it's swapped. It looks like a lot better than a lot of the stuff I see in pics from SEMA, if it sounds good, would like to hear it since I don't know what makes F80 M3s sound so bad but they definitely do sound bad especially when loud. There's a more detailed video on it that just came out but unfortunately it features no footage of the car running. That second car though, yeah that's polarizing at best but to me just ruined.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2688_3):
Originally posted by mr2peak Oh no, I'm getting good milage in my 425hp+ aluminum block turbo 6 cylinder E30 M3... What a travesty. Dont forget they also sound like ass Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 2688_6):
Originally posted by SGT StudMuffiin Dont forget they also sound like ass Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk As a former M4 owner... the sound is just terrible. And I don't care what everyone says, it still has noticeable turbo lag. That chassis deserved a high revving NA V8.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2688_7):
The first car is nice but the engine choice bores me and the wheels don't fit right. A lot of work no doubt, but work in the wrong direction. The second car looks nothing like one of that Khyzyl guy's works. Hugely underwhelming in anything other than ultra-dramatic lighting. I spend all my time obsessing over quality, so these grandiose builds that seem slapped-together don't toot my horn.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2688_8):
Originally posted by BeirBrennerE30 As a former M4 owner... the sound is just terrible. And I don't care what everyone says, it still has noticeable turbo lag. That chassis deserved a high revving NA V8. BMW keeps offering me money to trade my S65 in for the S55 F80, while that car is much faster, I cant give up the sound, the feel and the revs of the S65. Kinda why I went S54 in my E30.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2688_9):
Originally posted by Staszek BMW keeps offering me money to trade my S65 in for the S55 F80, while that car is much faster, I cant give up the sound, the feel and the revs of the S65. Kinda why I went S54 in my E30. Thats the right decision. I gave up an Imola Yellow B7 RS4 for the F82 and I regret it.