QUESTION ID: 235

QUESTION:
Hello all, Finally, I'm back to the E30 community. Our family recently picked up a 1989 E30 325i sedan and shipped it back to Long Island, NY from the west coast. The car comes with BC coilovers with 32 ways adjustments which is not in my liking(at least my kidneys are not liking the ride on NY roads). So since the car passed NYS Salvage Vehicle Examination last week due to it had Cali salvage title. Long story short, I am planning to upgrade most if not all the suspension parts and give a refresh suspension. Hoping to enjoy the drive as the E30 will be my weekend car to drive or to car meets. Not planning to do track/autocross. Here is the list of parts I'm planning to purchase and install. Can someone with knowledge confirm these will work? Please let me know if i am missing other parts while I'm already doing this. Full tune up will be next in coming fall/winter. Front shocks: KONI 8641 1021SPORT Rear shocks KONI 80 2522SPORT Lowering springs: H&R Sport 50404-55 ECS Complete Front & Rear Suspension Rebuild Kit: Front: Lemforder Front lower control arms Solid rubber E36 M3 front control arm bushings for improved handling and steering feel Lemforder Front sway bar end links Sachs Front strut mounts Lemforder Inner and outer tie rod assemblies All required retaining hardware Rear: Rear trailing arm bushings Rear stabilizer links Rear shock mounts - upgraded units from the E46 M3 ECS rear shock mount reinforcement plates for improved mount life and protection from shock mount deformation Rear shock mount hardware and gasket Rear subframe mounts Differential bushing Regard Zac

ANSWER 1 (id: 235_0):
I *might* be interested in your coils if they haven’t already been spoken for. I’ve been leaning towards GCs for my project, but wouldn’t mind spending on a used set of BCs to see how I like them if you’re interested? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 235_1):
Originally posted by E30auddie I *might* be interested in your coils if they haven’t already been spoken for. I’ve been leaning towards GCs for my project, but wouldn’t mind spending on a used set of BCs to see how I like them if you’re interested? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk That may work. PM me. I just need sort out the parts I need before removing the BC. The BC set up is probably less than 500 miles. More than 500 miles if including the transport from Cali to Long Island. lol