QUESTION ID: 2979

QUESTION:
Hi guys, I’ve been searching for a few months for a nice e30 and came across a pristine 86k mile 318is locates 650 miles from my place in NY. I have seen many pics and video which makes me feel that it is a great car and I want to go through with getting it. I am a ship engineer and last week I took a contract which will have me away for a few months. Is there a car transport service that will act as a middle man for the purchase? I’m unsure how to proceed.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2979_0):
Sounds like some african prince shit to me... but seriously, im sure you can find an auto broker or pay a r3v member in the area to handle it for you. I wouldn't trust an auto transport company because you're talking to their broker, who talks to a carrier, that may have multiple drivers, and you really don't know what you're gonna get.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2979_10):
Yeah, even with great pics and video, you're buying a 30 yr old car that's been out on the road, in who knows what conditions. I've bought two newish used cars from faraway dealers, but I had someone I know go drive them, and an independent shop look them over. One was put on a carrier and promptly disappeared for two weeks! Is it in a town where there's a reputable independent shop that can do a PPI? They can advise you of big issues (there will be plenty of small ones) and if it's worth it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2979_11):
Originally posted by george graves Just FYI - there is very few parts of my original car left. Engine, suspension, diff, ecu, wiring, carpet, tranny, all gone, and upgraded to better parts. I could go on and on. You get the idea. Right? lol... sounds like my car. It is literally "Grandpa's Axe" - it's had 3 heads and 5 handles, but it's the same axe :D My car is in excellent condition, but many e30s, a couple of e28s, an e34, an e32, and a couple of e36s went into the car that you see today :D As to the OP, depends what you want to do with the car as George pointed out. If it's just a weekender that you intend to keep stock, then a low mileage 318iS would fit the bill. An independent PPI should tell you what you need to know.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2979_12):
Originally posted by e30davie I personally would not ever buy a car sight unseen. and there are only a very select few people in my life i would trust to look at a car for me. But if you have loads of money and aren't afraid to burn it on a potential lemon, go for your life:D I decided to hold off on it. I am a very picky buyer and decided it wasnt worth risking $9500 on a car that I wouldn't be able to see before buying. Originally posted by M-technik-3 Maybe Jimmy P might be interested he has m42 powered Ti and he knows BMW and he is Scranton as well I have meet Jimmy before but I would feel weird about asking him to fly to Detroit to look at the car for me. Even for close friends it is a lot to ask. Originally posted by flyboyx i have to be honest in that the prospect of this scares the crap out of me. can you appeal to a forum member in the area who can at least go look at it for you? this forum is littered with horror stories that start out like this. my buddy matt is the first one to come to mind. I have seen some of those stories posted here and heard of them through friends. I decided its not worth the risk. Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 where is the car at? Dirty detroit Originally posted by george graves Are you a collector? Or modder? My 2 cents.....If you plan to mod it, it's a waste of money starting with low milage car. Unless it has amazing paint, and your plan is to keep it wrapped up in a diaper, in a garage, and never drive it, and keep it stock. Just FYI - there is very few parts of my original car left. Engine, suspension, diff, ecu, wiring, carpet, tranny, all gone, and upgraded to better parts. I could go on and on. You get the idea. Right? I dont plan to mod it. Mild drop from stock, some nice RS wheels and thats it. Nice day daily. Originally posted by E30 Wagen Yeah, always get a PPI. I've purchased three cars sight unseen and have dealt with disappointment and headache every time, but in the end I can hardly blame the seller if I didn't have the car properly inspected. Yea who can you blame but yourself. The PPI is always the right call.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2979_2):
i have to be honest in that the prospect of this scares the crap out of me. can you appeal to a forum member in the area who can at least go look at it for you? this forum is littered with horror stories that start out like this. my buddy matt is the first one to come to mind.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2979_4):
I personally would not ever buy a car sight unseen. and there are only a very select few people in my life i would trust to look at a car for me. But if you have loads of money and aren't afraid to burn it on a potential lemon, go for your life:D

ANSWER 7 (id: 2979_6):
Try to find someone in the area of the car for a Pre Purchase Inspection. AND to make sure it isn't a scam. You can buy a car w/o looking at it as long as you have a reliable person for a PPI. I did it on a e46 wagon. Was a great deal. dlm ny country

ANSWER 8 (id: 2979_7):
Originally posted by flyboyx don't u no u ain't sa'posed to end your sentences in a preposition? jk! lol. Lmao must of missed that day of school house rock.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2979_8):
Originally posted by ttrousdell a pristine 86k miles 318is. Are you a collector? Or modder? My 2 cents.....If you plan to mod it, it's a waste of money starting with low milage car. Unless it has amazing paint, and your plan is to keep it wrapped up in a diaper, in a garage, and never drive it, and keep it stock. Just FYI - there is very few parts of my original car left. Engine, suspension, diff, ecu, wiring, carpet, tranny, all gone, and upgraded to better parts. I could go on and on. You get the idea. Right?

ANSWER 10 (id: 2979_9):
Yeah, always get a PPI. I've purchased three cars sight unseen and have dealt with disappointment and headache every time, but in the end I can hardly blame the seller if I didn't have the car properly inspected.