QUESTION ID: 1525

QUESTION:
So I found that my car was loosing coolant and it was from a hairline crack in my radiator. Its a vary slow leak. So i need to buy a new radiator. I am wanting to get the Z3M radiator because of something I am doing in the future with the car. Don't ask what I'm not saying till i have the big item. So my question is this. Will it fit with the M20 and the mechanical fan or do i need to remove the mechanical fan for a electronic fan? Thank you in advance. .......the repair work never ends on this damn car haha.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1525_11):
from the dead..........Any good new options for the radiator? I'm thinking the Zionsville or the Z3M unit. Anyone got first hand experience with Zionsville as i'd like to get something non plastic if the fitment, quality and performance is at least as good OE? i dont need a huge improvement in cooling as only NA and no track days but like most street cars the hardest aspect is getting airflow and hence cooling when stationary/slow moving traffic on a 45C+ day with aircon. Intending to retain the clutch fan and stock Aux fan.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1525_12):
C&R - https://www.bimmerworld.com/Cooling/...-Radiator.html Many E36 S54 320-350 WHP track cars have used this unit with no problem. Not a fan of the zionsville unit due to last 2 had fitment issues. I have a like new Z3M Mishimoto I'd let go, maybe. I think for what where doing even the E36 radiator is plenty and just replace the OEM unit as needed, They fit every time unless damaged in shipping.. and make sure the front end is duct'd into the radiator.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1525_13):
Originally posted by moatilliatta C&R - https://www.bimmerworld.com/Cooling/...-Radiator.html Many E36 S54 320-350 WHP track cars have used this unit with no problem. Not a fan of the zionsville unit due to last 2 had fitment issues. I have a like new Z3M Mishimoto I'd let go, maybe. I think for what where doing even the E36 radiator is plenty and just replace the OEM unit as needed, They fit every time unless damaged in shipping.. and make sure the front end is duct'd into the radiator. What fitment issues did you have?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1525_2):
Originally posted by flyboyx it will work with no modification. if i were you, i would spend a little more money and get the mishimoto all aluminum. are those really worth it? half of them seem to leak every 6 months. others don't fit correctly out of the box. I've never been impressed with Mishimoto. What good does a lifetime warranty do you when you have to swap radiators all the time due to leaks?

ANSWER 5 (id: 1525_6):
Zionsville> Z3M > Mishimoto E36 M3 guys have nothing good to say about the Mishimoto quality, I have a z3m in mine and it is great. If you want to spend the money go with Zionsville they are works of art.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1525_7):
So weird. I have had zero issues with Mishimoto's including the one installed in my personal car. Have had it for at least 4 years now. Not a single leak.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1525_8):
Z3M radiators are cheap and durable. do you really care about repalcing a radiator every 100k or so? Mishimoto reliability is crap, and they aren't particularly good or cheap. Zionsville et. al. are 3-5X the cost, and it's not actually clear that you get more real durability from them. At some point, you still have to replace a radiator due to damage, mineral buildup, etc., no matter how nice it is.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1525_9):
Just get the Z3M, cheap and effective with no fit-up issues and they will rarely leak. Especially on the M20, they don't run hot enough that the plastic tanks will have problems.