QUESTION ID: 1610

QUESTION:
So first, -Tires are new, wheels are good, and balanced. -I have installed alignment rings around all four hubs to make sure the wheels are on straight. -Tie rods/control arms/sway bar bushings are all new -NO it's not the rotors I have owned my iX for a number of years now and have always had this issue. However never got around to it because of bigger issues on the car. The steering wheel will shake periodically. The shaking is like warped brake rotors. The shaking Usually when applying power, but not always. It will shake at any speed above 40mph. But, and I say again, it happens completely randomly. I put ~300miles on the car a week. Somedays it will not shake, then other days it will shake all day. Idea?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1610_2):
Sticking caliper piston maybe ? All rotors have some run out and that's okay provided it's within tolerance. Normally this run out will push the piston back far enough to clear it and you won't feel it through the steering system...but if the caliper piston is intermittently sticking you will pick up the high spot (or surface contamination) of the rotor run out as the wheel spins. When you say "It's not the rotors" - have you checked run out with a dial gauge ?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1610_3):
Originally posted by Seawolf Sticking caliper piston maybe ? All rotors have some run out and that's okay provided it's within tolerance. Normally this run out will push the piston back far enough to clear it and you won't feel it through the steering system...but if the caliper piston is intermittently sticking you will pick up the high spot (or surface contamination) of the rotor run out as the wheel spins. When you say "It's not the rotors" - have you checked run out with a dial gauge ? run out is .001" and this issue has been with the car for years. I've replaced the brakes a few times.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1610_4):
did you check the runout while the rotor was ON the car?, i had a bent hub (dont ask, i didnt do it) i found it out by means of a dial indicator clamped to the outer tie rod end stud and against the wheel, then unbolted the wheel, rotated it 180 on the hub and tried it again, high spot ended up sure enough 180 from the first mark.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1610_5):
i once had a similiar random vibration problem on my silver ix. it turns out the front tires had a few ounces of water in them. you say your tires are new, so presumably it isn't that. the white cabrio in my sig had a similar problem too. i went to this little local shop to get my tires balanced. their machine was off by about 1.5oz. i ended up just taking the wheels to discount tire for balancing. unfortunately, i had to pay twice, but it solved the problem you mention alignment rings so i assume you have aftermarket rims? i would check your rims for runout. possibly rotate your tires to see if the vibe goes to the back of the car. do you have another set of wheels? if so, can you switch them out and see if it goes away? perhaps you can trade wheels for a day with one of your e30 buddies? the next thing i would look into is your axles. perhaps they are worn out. you may consider taking them off and wiggling the flex joints around to see if they have slop. lastly, the front guibo. i think this is a long shot, but worth checking. when is the last time you had the front driveshaft out to lube it? hope this helps.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1610_6):
Originally posted by flyboyx i once had a similiar random vibration problem on my silver ix. it turns out the front tires had a few ounces of water in them. you say your tires are new, so presumably it isn't that. the white cabrio in my sig had a similar problem too. i went to this little local shop to get my tires balanced. their machine was off by about 1.5oz. i ended up just taking the wheels to discount tire for balancing. unfortunately, i had to pay twice, but it solved the problem you mention alignment rings so i assume you have aftermarket rims? i would check your rims for runout. possibly rotate your tires to see if the vibe goes to the back of the car. do you have another set of wheels? if so, can you switch them out and see if it goes away? perhaps you can trade wheels for a day with one of your e30 buddies? the next thing i would look into is your axles. perhaps they are worn out. you may consider taking them off and wiggling the flex joints around to see if they have slop. lastly, the front guibo. i think this is a long shot, but worth checking. when is the last time you had the front driveshaft out to lube it? hope this helps. The car has shook every since I got it with 117k on it. I have 171k now. It has all new axles/wheels/tires/suspension/both driveshafts w guibos. As a general question, what would a bad steering rack be like?

ANSWER 6 (id: 1610_7):
I was chasing a steering wheel shake for years after replacing almost ever suspension component, steering guibos, and u joint. Ended up being that large nut on the power steering column being loose under the kick panel. It was tight, but had another 1/4 to 1/2 turn that made all the difference.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1610_8):
Originally posted by audiquattrot I was chasing a steering wheel shake for years after replacing almost ever suspension component, steering guibos, and u joint. Ended up being that large nut on the power steering column being loose under the kick panel. It was tight, but had another 1/4 to 1/2 turn that made all the difference. Dealing with a similar issue. Are you talking about #9 here? https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=32_0427

ANSWER 8 (id: 1610_9):
nah its a large nut on the column itself. I believe it the one in the pic here https://www.realoem.com/bmw/enUS/sho...diagId=32_0480 the gold nut....had to use a large monkey wrench to grab it, and turned the steering wheel (I believe counter-clockwise) to tighten