QUESTION ID: 3136

QUESTION:
When you buy online do you expect the seller to stand behind their shipping choice when the package is lost, slow or never shows in possession of the shipper (per tracking given)?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3136_1):
Generally when you have insurance on a package its up to the recipient to file the claim and such, if that it was your referring to. Since its the rightful owner. THere has been times when i sell boots, a few weeks goes by, they start a claim saying it wasnt shipped, i enter tracking info and it closes the case. Its a risk you take, when you buy. i know many people who had wheels damaged. They were the ones who had to file I generally work with the person, like give them 50% off a new set, and use a diff shipper, since id go broke sending 15 sets to someone

ANSWER 2 (id: 3136_2):
The shipper as a rule chooses the company that they ship with. (Some offer choices for various service speeds) I just mean the provider that is chosen. It has been my experience at the claim level the shipping company generally needs to hear from the shipper as they are their client.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3136_3):
right, but foran issue and damages, that goes to the receiver. any time customers had an issue, they had to deal with people and when i called, they always ask is it your shipment, if no, have receiver contact us

ANSWER 4 (id: 3136_4):
Legally speaking, if the shipper has proof of shipment, they are not responsible. Ethically.... its a moving target. Back when I handled more of this, I generally helped out. This was assuming the caller was pleasant and reasonable. Often that would mean shipping the order again, putting trust that the receiver would let me know if the original package showed up. In this amazon age, people forget that there is a two-way relationship between the buyer and seller. If you are reasonable, chances are they will be as well. If one is a prick, well ..... expect the same. (oh the story's I could tell)....

ANSWER 5 (id: 3136_5):
Originally posted by SkiFree Legally speaking, if the shipper has proof of shipment, they are not responsible. Ethically.... its a moving target. Back when I handled more of this, I generally helped out. This was assuming the caller was pleasant and reasonable. Often that would mean shipping the order again, putting trust that the receiver would let me know if the original package showed up. In this amazon age, people forget that there is a two-way relationship between the buyer and seller. If you are reasonable, chances are they will be as well. If one is a prick, well ..... expect the same. (oh the story's I could tell).... Pretty much. Everyone seems to expect cheap, fast shipping. I have ran in to it a few times where people want it shipped via the cheapest possible, then get all uptight when it takes a week or two to get across the country.. Hell, I remember the old days when you would order stuff via mail order, and the common response was "wait 4-6 weeks for arrival!"

ANSWER 6 (id: 3136_6):
Originally posted by Matt-B Generally when you have insurance on a package its up to the recipient to file the claim and such, if that it was your referring to. Since its the rightful owner. THere has been times when i sell boots, a few weeks goes by, they start a claim saying it wasnt shipped, i enter tracking info and it closes the case. Its a risk you take, when you buy. i know many people who had wheels damaged. They were the ones who had to file I generally work with the person, like give them 50% off a new set, and use a diff shipper, since id go broke sending 15 sets to someone Most shipping insurance will ONLY talk to the shipper.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3136_7):
Originally posted by nrubenstein Most shipping insurance will ONLY talk to the shipper. this is true too. We are having an issue with some Hartge parts that were shipped from German - got to Kent, Washington (the black hole of USPS shipping) and sat for 2 weeks. Then they said they couldn't deliver because they didn't know the address. So then they shipped it back to Germany, but then Germany is rerouting it back to the US. We are TWO MONTHS in the clusterf*ck now! The shipper/seller has been good about communicating and trying to do anything he can from his end - but sometimes, the Postal Service just does what ever tha F*CK they want. We don't hold anything against the shipper, he had no control over it, and we have shipped many, many parts the same way, and to the same address. But every once and while the Postal Service does this... So then what? As long as it shows movement in their system, they won't do anything. And honestly, if wasn't for the fact they are unobtainable parts (Hartge vert rear valance panels) we wouldn't be as upset. But basically, we have a whole build waiting on these...

ANSWER 8 (id: 3136_8):
Originally posted by nrubenstein Most shipping insurance will ONLY talk to the shipper. To add to this, I found out the hard way that a lot of shippers such as FedEx and UPS have their insurance set up to ONLY cover the cost of a package if its lost, not damaged. UPS stated to me directly that the only way they cover the damage of a package is if you let UPS package up your items for you. Interesting tid bit that would have saved me from making an $8000 mistake at work last year.