QUESTION ID: 1303

QUESTION:
Hi All, I found an interesting part in the diagrams, and wanted to share with other convertible owners that are converting power tops to manual operation. Cars with a power top have no lower mounting point for the support shocks that hold boot lid open. Harvesting them from a donor car is a pain in the ass, since these are welded to the body. BMW still stocks this Support Bracket - Part# 41131932331 (41-13-1-932-331), and they are only about $12 each. Fits Left or Right position. I ordered a pair from my local dealer, and they came from Europe in about 4 weeks. At the time of this post, BMW showed 17 pieces available in Germany. I primed my new brackets and then painted them with black trim paint. My plan is to use body panel adhesive to mount them in my E30. Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 1303_0):
Fabulous. This is great news as I accidentally ordered the struts from Jeff but had no way to use them without damaging the car. Did you order two of the same or are there left and right?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1303_1):
Originally posted by Dspill Fabulous. This is great news as I accidentally ordered the struts from Jeff but had no way to use them without damaging the car. Did you order two of the same or are there left and right? The same part # is used for Left and Right

ANSWER 3 (id: 1303_10):
I finally got around to installing the boot shocks and lower brackets. For now, I just screwed the brackets into place. I'll go back at some point and replace the screws with body panel adhesive and rivets. Next step is to install the manual latches, cables, and release handle.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1303_11):
Not sure how I've missed this thread but glad to see some solutions to a fairly common situation. I would highly recommend some form of mechanical attachment for that bracket and if were me I'd use pop rivets. As Cory58 said, there is a fair amount of pressure on these when close and if the pressure exerts any sheer on the adhesive, they could let go. next step is to apply the same approach to installing a second trunk strut like late cars where each has half the Newton's of the single strut so doesn't torque your trunk lid fyi my deck lid struts are $35 shipped and if you get the soft top struts with them it's $89 for all 4.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1303_12):
Originally posted by Mars_e30 I harvested the part from an early convertible boot that i had lying around. It came off easily... just had to drill out the 4 spot welds. I took a quick measurement, using the center of the little trim screw for reference (1-3/8"). I plan to install at some point, although I don't think this thing is even necessary. I ran my first E30 convertible completely unlatched for a year without issue. That's a big bummer. I thought I had all the parts I need for a conversion and also thought the manual and EM boot lids were the same.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1303_13):
Originally posted by cory58 That's a big bummer. I thought I had all the parts I need for a conversion and also thought the manual and EM boot lids were the same. I really don't think this safety latch is all that necessary. A couple of convertibles ago, I drove the car all summer with boot lid completely unlatched. My top motors were both junk... never flew open, even on the highway. If you get the manual cables/latches working, you will never have an issue.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1303_2):
Thanks! I have two on the way from Germany. Please let us know how the install goes if you can. I’m curious whether the struts will hold down the lid or if you pulled those parts from a donor vehicle. I’ve been using the lid motor to hold the lid down but it’s not down all the way.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1303_3):
Originally posted by Dspill Thanks! I have two on the way from Germany. Please let us know how the install goes if you can. I’m curious whether the struts will hold down the lid or if you pulled those parts from a donor vehicle. I’ve been using the lid motor to hold the lid down but it’s not down all the way. +1 Interested to hear your outcome as well. I converted mine to manual, but it could be better. I currently use my shoulder to hold the lid open LOL.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1303_4):
Originally posted by Mars_e30 My plan is to use body panel adhesive to mount them in my E30. I am also interested in the results of mounting them with adhesive. I was planning to weld mine, but adhesive would be a lot easier. Would need to be a strong adhesive, since the brackets are under pressure 100% of the time, much more so when the lid is closed. Thanks, Cory

ANSWER 10 (id: 1303_6):
Originally posted by jjsanchez have you installed these, also what shock did you use? Thanks I haven't installed the brackets yet. Unfortunately, the car is now put away for the winter. I ordered the STABILUS "OEM" boot lid shocks from FCP, which ended up being a little problematic. Their web image looked good, but the shocks I received were "similar"... not the same as shown online. The lower end of the original shock has a flat eye that passes through a slot in the dust boot. The ones that FCP sent (Stabilus # 668994) had a different end on it, which I had to grind down. I then attemped to test fit the shock on the boot lid. This is where I discovered that the hole in each eye was smaller than original. I drilled those out to make it work. If you don't plan to use the factory dust boot, then no grinding will be required. After all that, I reached out to FCP to tell them that there is a fitment issue. They were cool about it and issued a refund without having to send the parts back. I am happy with this solution vs. ordering the factory shocks for $100 each. FCP is still selling the STABILUS ones for under $20 apiece. Maybe you can end up at $0 cost too :)

ANSWER 11 (id: 1303_7):
Excellent post! I spent weeks looking for these and eventually found them on turner and ecs. I havent installed them yet but i got the struts from jeff also. I plan to drill holes in the brackets and rivet them into the body. Some silicone to seal the holes and rivets between the sheetmetals.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1303_8):
Hi All, Does anyone upon a conversion got a solution for hood catch to work? A lid for manual top has a rod welded to it so a hood catch can lock on it. A lid for EM top does not have this rod. If any one has a close up picture of that rod, it would be appreciate. I need to fabricate one. Sorry for the poor quality of the pictures, this is all I could find online. Thanks

ANSWER 13 (id: 1303_9):
Originally posted by Roko Hi All, Does anyone upon a conversion got a solution for hood catch to work? A lid for manual top has a rod welded to it so a hood catch can lock on it. A lid for EM top does not have this rod. If any one has a close up picture of that rod, it would be appreciate. I need to fabricate one. Sorry for the poor quality of the pictures, this is all I could find online. Thanks I harvested the part from an early convertible boot that i had lying around. It came off easily... just had to drill out the 4 spot welds. I took a quick measurement, using the center of the little trim screw for reference (1-3/8"). I plan to install at some point, although I don't think this thing is even necessary. I ran my first E30 convertible completely unlatched for a year without issue.