QUESTION ID: 251

QUESTION:
Going to do my wheel bearings and i want the right tool. Youtube videos have shown an autozone bearing puller set working well? my friend uses a genuine bmw set which sounds cool but im sure is $$$. I know there are lots of threads out there about this, ive read lots of them. But i want direct input from the community i respect : What Wheel Bearing Toolkit would you recommend if i intend to do bearings on an e30 , e36, and 2002? Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 251_0):
Rental tools work fine for this job, nothing special outside if other vehicles is needed. I purchased the Harbor Freight bearing kit about a decade ago and it has stood up in a professional environment at work (just a bunch of round tubes and thick machines washers with steps for various bearings). Just be weary of sticky axle splines and be smart about removing/installing them. I replaced the HF threaded rod with 3/4 all thread and quality nuts. Keep meaning to purchase acme all thread, but the 6' rod I bought at the local place has been cut many times replacing it when it eventually gets bound up, the HF threads are too fine and too soft. Most important thing is to let the tool do the work, don't impact it like some grease monkey using an impact to tighten the oil pan plug at a jiffy quick lube your similar type place. Take the time to wrench it and have a manual feel when it gets bound - and be cautious about where you are pressing. When installing the bearing, be sure the outer race is the part being pushed in, and when installing the hub, inner race must be the pressing force, or you run the risk if tuning the ball bearing races.

ANSWER 2 (id: 251_1):
Many eBay sellers have the same toolkit for $40+. "23 Bearing Removal Adapter"If you also buy a long hardened M14 bolt, you can use it to pull some rubber bushings. The differential bushing is 82mm, the lollipop is 60mm.

ANSWER 3 (id: 251_3):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird Rental tools work fine for this job, nothing special outside if other vehicles is needed. I purchased the Harbor Freight bearing kit about a decade ago and it has stood up in a professional environment at work (just a bunch of round tubes and thick machines washers with steps for various bearings). Just be weary of sticky axle splines and be smart about removing/installing them. I replaced the HF threaded rod with 3/4 all thread and quality nuts. Keep meaning to purchase acme all thread, but the 6' rod I bought at the local place has been cut many times replacing it when it eventually gets bound up, the HF threads are too fine and too soft. Most important thing is to let the tool do the work, don't impact it like some grease monkey using an impact to tighten the oil pan plug at a jiffy quick lube your similar type place. Take the time to wrench it and have a manual feel when it gets bound - and be cautious about where you are pressing. When installing the bearing, be sure the outer race is the part being pushed in, and when installing the hub, inner race must be the pressing force, or you run the risk if tuning the ball bearing races. Where do you get your hardware for replacement? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 251_4):
Originally posted by E30335i Where do you get your hardware for replacement? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk I use a local hardware specialist Broward Bolt, but there's probably Fastenal near you which is comparable, but carry a little less variety.