QUESTION ID: 1355
TOPIC: electrical_gremlins

QUESTION:
Anyone know the difference in the wiring for the central locking of a vert compared to a coupe? I have 2 thick red/black wires going into the door plug and 1 coming out. I have 1 thin red/black in the relay and 1 thin red/black in the control unit. Trying to bypass the loop so I can start checking stuff of to get my locks working. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1355_0):
sorry dont know ,,,,,, but wots common is the relay and some times the wire ends corrode in the door entry connection,,, best of luck,, I do have good relay avail if required, its in the side footwell ;)

ANSWER 2 (id: 1355_1):
Fuse is good, relay has been swapped and no rust on the connections. I removed the loop according to the diagram but still nothing. Next step is replacing actuators. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1355_3):
Very central locking So the wiring info I posted above it correct for coupes as well? Doesnt seem that way from the pic below. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1355_4):
All actuators are good, control unit and relay are good. From the pic posted above I dont have the jumper wire going from the relay to control unit this is why I asked if the verts had different wiring. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 1355_5):
Did you check the thermal fuse inside the CU ? Its a low temp solder so its quite visible if bad and if you do decide to repair it do not use regular solder (AMHIK). I did that and blew every actuator in the car :-)

ANSWER 6 (id: 1355_6):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Did you check the thermal fuse inside the CU ? Its a low temp solder so its quite visible if bad and if you do decide to repair it do not use regular solder (AMHIK). I did that and blew every actuator in the car :-) Yeah my fuse was good. I actually got it working, ended up being the loop in the door. I thought I spliced the right wires but the door plug actually has 3 red/black wire but 1 is a gauge smaller compared to the other 2. Spliced the right wires and everything worked. Thanks for the help! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk