QUESTION ID: 2072

QUESTION:
i dunno what is going on with fcp and shipping. i'm batting a 1000 here. 100% of my orders through fcp have been a wreck in the last two years. i actually like the company but it's getting really really old having to deal with it. if the order arrives complete i get something incorrect. or it arrives damaged , and / or with pieces missing.. this last shipment isn't their direct fault, but i've had nightmares dealing with their shippers previous. this time it arrived wet, damaged, and with the most expensive piece probably missing. edit : friggin ups more edit : i don't get any of their free shipping where i live either. i pay through the nose for it. and pay extra for guaranteed expedition. they gotta whip their shippers in to shape.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2072_1):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Give them a call and see if you can get some help or comps? i gave them a heads up. it's a mess, the shipping box is totally tore open and there is water damage and boxes falling apart and open on the inside. the bagged stuff is ok but i don't know if all of it's there even. i was so pissed at it i didn't deal with it today. will get pics and check it tomorrow. i've had such shit luck with them i've started going elsewhere.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2072_10):
Have found FCP to have pretty decent support. Raise a ticket and they'll follow it through. Once bought an E30 taillight gasket & they only shipped me the centre part (the bit you throw away). Within 2 days they owned it and I had another one on it's way to me no charge, And I'm in Australia...

ANSWER 3 (id: 2072_11):
Originally posted by AWDBOB There are 100 better ways to order parts that support the community better than the generic online dealer wholesale sites. OP, I haven't ever had issues with an FCP order, and I've ordered a LOT from them. They sent me a bad out of the box clutch master cylinder (not their fault) and it was one of the most effortless return processes that I've ever experienced. I'm not sure anyone I've used is "better" outside of well seasoned, old school parts guys at a dealer. ECS messes up 50% of orders, lies about in stock items, VAC kinda sucks, IE was bad for a while but getting better, nothing but issues with garagistic stuff, etc etc. i've ordered from garagistic, pelican, ecs, thayer, rockauto, IE, .. a few others. the only issues i've had have been with fcp. it's just bad luck. they have been great on trying to fix problems.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2072_12):
Originally posted by e30austin this is exactly why i refuse to try and save a few bucks buying things off the internet. every time, i end up getting fucked. buy local - if there happens to be an import parts store in your area, go find it. there is not. i'd be travelling more than 800k to the next decent one. even the local dealer won't order anything for a car older than ten years, nor service them. guys with e46's are shut out. only e90 or newer.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2072_13):
Originally posted by e30austin this is exactly why i refuse to try and save a few bucks buying things off the internet. every time, i end up getting fucked. buy local - if there happens to be an import parts store in your area, go find it. Shoot, even living in San Francisco or Oakland I couldn't find a local source of parts other than the dealership. SSF, WorldPac, and IMC all require a business, even to pick up. It's just getting harder to buy things in person.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2072_2):
They once sent me a headgasket set in a box that was too small. The headgasket set was bent to fit the box! I was right in the middle of my rebuild and was livid as I had been waiting for it. Everyone kept saying they will make it right...but why not get it right the first time? They weren't the only company messing up orders either. IE sent me mixed set of valve stem seals of different colors and sizes!

ANSWER 7 (id: 2072_3):
Originally posted by reelizmpro They once sent me a headgasket set in a box that was too small. The headgasket set was bent to fit the box! I was right in the middle of my rebuild and was livid as I had been waiting for it. Everyone kept saying they will make it right...but why not get it right the first time? They weren't the only company messing up orders either. IE sent me mixed set of valve stem seals of different colors and sizes! most suppliers don't warehouse or fulfill their own orders anymore. they just take orders and farm them out to a third party. everybody's a rockauto now. the only difference is the brand sourcing. even the "new" bosch starter i got from fcp turned out to be an offshore reman instead.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2072_4):
ECS usually has the issues. I've had nothing but great experiences with FCP, and really like the express shipping discounts. One time ordered a steering rack that I couldn't source locally. Ordered from FCP on a Monday, they said it wouldn't ship until Thursday (had to come from BMW) and I would get it the following Tuesday. It actually showed up 4 days later (Thursday).

ANSWER 9 (id: 2072_5):
I've always received my full order of the parts I've ordered. I have received some crushed boxes from FCP, but I've always attributed that to the shipper. (Although there are times when FCP packages fluids in a dumb way). I've also found that FCP generally ships faster than advertised, unless the shipper runs into an issue.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2072_7):
Originally posted by Vincenze If you buy original BMW parts, it's better to use getbmwparts.com Parts come labeled well. Nothing is missing or incorrect. There are 100 better ways to order parts that support the community better than the generic online dealer wholesale sites. OP, I haven't ever had issues with an FCP order, and I've ordered a LOT from them. They sent me a bad out of the box clutch master cylinder (not their fault) and it was one of the most effortless return processes that I've ever experienced. I'm not sure anyone I've used is "better" outside of well seasoned, old school parts guys at a dealer. ECS messes up 50% of orders, lies about in stock items, VAC kinda sucks, IE was bad for a while but getting better, nothing but issues with garagistic stuff, etc etc.

ANSWER 11 (id: 2072_8):
this is exactly why i refuse to try and save a few bucks buying things off the internet. every time, i end up getting fucked. buy local - if there happens to be an import parts store in your area, go find it.

ANSWER 12 (id: 2072_9):
Originally posted by e30austin this is exactly why i refuse to try and save a few bucks buying things off the internet. every time, i end up getting fucked. buy local - if there happens to be an import parts store in your area, go find it. qft I get so many people coming through my shop with parts from FCP or they want to order from FCP after I diagnose. Never..