QUESTION ID: 2561

QUESTION:
I purchased a GC setup second-hand here on r3v which included everything except for front struts/threaded adjustment collars. I've been trying to get in touch with Ground Control support via their contact page online (email) but haven't had any response (been just over a week). They state the following on their website: "Ground Control is willing to sell the parts to restore or repair an original Ground Control Suspension System to its original configuration and intended use.......Ground Control also does not sell “half-kits”. Ground Control cannot sell just the front or rear system." I imagine that they would be willing to sell me just the front spring perch/adjuster as it would "repair an original system to original configuration" but because I purchased the kit second-hand i'm not 100%. I'm going to try calling directly after memorial day but wanted to ask about experiences that others may have had in similar situations. For reference my kit is the following: Rear Upper Strut Mounts Rear Adjustable Spring Perch Set Rear Koni Rebound Adjustable Struts (8041 1289SPGC) Front Koni Rebound Adjustable Struts (8641 1547SPGC) Rear Eibach Spring Set (0500.225.065GC) Front GC Eibach Spring Set (GC150.64.77)

ANSWER 1 (id: 2561_0):
So if I am getting it right your missing just the struts/threaded adjustment collars. Thats not missing much and have you looked online, Via. Facebook, craigslist etc. Hopefully they give you the parts you need.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2561_2):
Call them. It may take a few tries. They typically take forever to respond to emails not addressed to someone. If you're working with a particular person, they're much better- depends on the person, of course, as does everything. I'm sure they'll sell you the collars- you might fib a little and say that yours are 'really chewed up' and you'd like to buy replacements. I've bought their upper camber/caster plates separately, and bought extra parts for THEM a couple of times- never any hassle. t