QUESTION ID: 1077

QUESTION:
Figured I'd share my rebuild pics in a thread in the event anyone was curious to check out a S14 up close. Wish I had more pics!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1077_0):
awesome pics... great to see someone rebuilding one... i was told by everyone, you have to have a shop rebuild it or it will blow up... That was 5 years ago... still screaming fine... did you replace any of the valves or guides? take caee, Tim

ANSWER 2 (id: 1077_1):
I have a 3 angle valve job done and the guides were done. I didn't replace the valves themselves since they were good. Chances are you are going to do a better job than a shop who doesn't care or fucks it up unintentionally otherwise.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1077_10):
Originally posted by jhaurimn Did you do nothing with the bottom end? Im going to be doing a refresh on my s14 and Id like get an idea of what Ill need to replace and what I can leave alone. New main and rod bearings, new piston rings, and as you can see from the pics, everything cleaned up. The things that you can leave alone if they are in good shape: Pistons Connecting rods Crank This is how I saved some money on mine. Also, my block is in really good shape so I only "cleaned" the piston walls, I did not bore it out (which you would need new sized pistons). You still need to make sure there isn't side play in the pistons where they connect with the sleeve/pin etc. Also of course new main bolts, connecting rod bolts... that's where the extra cost sucks because you're literally just buying hardware at that point! The best thing you can do is account for replacing everything and ask your machinist what is necessary. They may tell you your pistons are cracked or something crazy but if your engine was taken care of like mine, you should be fine re-using those things and saving a few thousand ha.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1077_3):
Originally posted by Bmwdayz Rebuilding and S14 isn't black magic. Anyone who understands engines can build one and it won't blow up. Awesome to see another s14 back on the road! That's exactly the perception I was attempting to break with this thread and to encourage others to look and see it's just a normal engine. The thing that sucks about the rebuild are things that shouldn't cost a lot do such as timing guides for instance. Some of the pieces are expensive but just look at the pictures, there's nothing to is and you don't need a "BMW Master Mechanic for 40+ years" to do it for you. I recently was selling my car and ultimately sold it to a local buddy. Too many people wouldn't take my rebuild seriously since I wasn't a shop or they just didn't know anything about it otherwise. My buddy is now driving the car all the time and loves how it's pulling compared to his other stock M3 (also 200k though not rebuilt). Overall the process was fun and very rewarding.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1077_4):
So, I'm here looking at these pictures and I guess I had that look on my face...my wife comments "looking at porn?". Yeah. I guess I am. . The S14 is just a motor...a nicely engineered, robust motor, but a motor none the less.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1077_7):
Originally posted by BMG What happened to the water plug on the back of the head ? It was very corroded and basically fell apart when I tried to unscrew it. I had to use a chisel to unscrew it, check out these pics and video. https://youtu.be/1_5Umzta8SQ

ANSWER 7 (id: 1077_8):
Thanks. I only asked because I tried to remove the same plug on my spare head and it was stuck. I chickened out for fear of damaging it. Nice work on the build.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1077_9):
Did you do nothing with the bottom end? Im going to be doing a refresh on my s14 and Id like get an idea of what Ill need to replace and what I can leave alone.