QUESTION ID: 3599

QUESTION:
Hi all, I'm trying to decide what to do next with my 1987 325is. So far: Short shift kit and new shift bushings H&R sport springs Bilstein sports Corbeau GTSII seats Zhp knob Ryan g splitter Whey king vintage mesh wheels 15x7 with 225s Supersprint exhaust Trying to decide on what the next addition will be: 1. ST sway bar kit 2 . Kamotors cai and headlight duct (I know it won't do much) 3. Aftermarket steering wheel (currently have MT1) I'm thinking of momo mod 7 or 8. Had been considering a renown wheel but I've heard some bad reviews lately on flex. My car is used for spirited driving, with hopefully some limited track/autox time this summer. Input and thoughts? Should I also consider a chip or strut brace?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3599_2):
Sway bars I guess, neither of the other options seem worth the effort to me. But I think the MT1 is one of the best-looking period options. Your car looks awesome!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3599_3):
Your car looks great! Have you done the m3 offset control arm bushings? If not, I'd start their. Prob the largest difference for your buck. Sway bars are neat but you'll only need the front for now. How's the steering rack? Strut bars are cool and cheap. I have the IE one and haven't noticed a difference other then it looks cool. As for wheels, I've owned renown and momo. And they feel about the same, so go with the one you like the looks better. In fact my momo prototipo flexes way more then my old renoun 130r. I like how renoun is a small biz who supports the BMW group. But momos are nice as well. Good luck

ANSWER 3 (id: 3599_4):
I put in a RD strut bar and it made a huge difference in body roll reduction and handling. I also have the larger vert sway bars and m3 springs so that may have something to do with it too. Sent from th

ANSWER 4 (id: 3599_7):
Originally posted by e30_world Your car looks great! Have you done the m3 offset control arm bushings? If not, I'd start their. Prob the largest difference for your buck. Sway bars are neat but you'll only need the front for now. How's the steering rack? Strut bars are cool and cheap. I have the IE one and haven't noticed a difference other then it looks cool. As for wheels, I've owned renown and momo. And they feel about the same, so go with the one you like the looks better. In fact my momo prototipo flexes way more then my old renoun 130r. I like how renoun is a small biz who supports the BMW group. But momos are nice as well. Good luck I haven't done the control arms. I'll look into it. I'm interested in your comments on the renown. I really like their motorsport 100 wheel but I have read a few "avoid this cheap momo knock off" comments. If there isn't flex to the renown I may go that route! Thanks very much man.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3599_9):
I would do sways and a faster rack. If you haven't already done a DSSR i recommend that too also replace all the subframe bushing they are probably busted to shit