QUESTION ID: 3553

QUESTION:
Hey everyone! I recently sold my bronzit coupe help fund a new project in which I plan to go all out on. I picked up a calypso coupe for next to nothing with a blown motor. Only problem is, no title..... I've bought many vehicles with no title before and just register them in Maine where you don't need a title and after that you can title it in any state. Welp recently the laws have changed and that doesn't work anymore. The previous registered owner is ignoring me for some reason. Even offered him some money to sign an affidavit in lieu of title. But that's okay making $250 for a quick signature isn't worth most peoples time anyway... So now I'm back to square one. Does anyone know of a title agency that is reasonably priced? Or any other loop holes so I can start this build? Any help is appreciated! Sent from my LG-H900 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3553_1):
Originally posted by 325isdan im not saying this but if you know the owners name and the owner seems to not care why not just forge a signature. again I'm not say to do this.😉😉 Unfortunately it has to be notarized or I might consider "not" doing that [emoji1] Sent from my LG-H900 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 3553_10):
you can file for abandoned vehicle in some states. DMV attempts to contact the registered owner, if they dont take proper ownership or acknowledge the attempts, you are given ownership of the car. thats more or less how it works in VA. ive actually done this with a toyota pickup and a motorcycle i found in the woods.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3553_2):
when I went through this process I sent the letter certified to the last reg'd owner. keep your proof of this. if they refuse or dont reply, then you can take it to the next step and get a "temp" title (not the correct name) and as long as the last reg'd owner doesnt try to take ownership or make a claim that its theirs, they will issue you a title in your name. but they have 3 years from when you do that

ANSWER 4 (id: 3553_4):
well, no offense, but that rear bumper in the last pic is stupid. you should throw that fiberglass crap away. definitely don't waste your resources putting that b.s. on your car. with that said, here in texas, we have the opportunity to do a bonded title. i am not an expert on the particulars, but i think the bond is 10% of the blue book value of the car. there is a waiting period, but if the previous owner doesn't step forward, you get a clean title in your name.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3553_5):
Originally posted by flyboyx well, no offense, but that rear bumper in the last pic is stupid. you should throw that fiberglass crap away. definitely don't waste your resources putting that b.s. on your car. with that said, here in texas, we have the opportunity to do a bonded title. i am not an expert on the particulars, but i think the bond is 10% of the blue book value of the car. there is a waiting period, but if the previous owner doesn't step forward, you get a clean title in your name. I think that is just a rear valance?

ANSWER 6 (id: 3553_6):
Every state will have a way to deal with no title. They will run you through the ringer, and even make you feel like a criminal, but there is always a form you can fill out and swear you didn't steal it. Some states will make you post an ad in a newspaper and wait 6 months.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3553_8):
Originally posted by flyboyx well, no offense, but that rear bumper in the last pic is stupid. you should throw that fiberglass crap away. definitely don't waste your resources putting that b.s. on your car. with that said, here in texas, we have the opportunity to do a bonded title. i am not an expert on the particulars, but i think the bond is 10% of the blue book value of the car. there is a waiting period, but if the previous owner doesn't step forward, you get a clean title in your name. No offense taken, off the car it looks like a fiberglass eBay part but that's an actual authentic breyton rear valance kept in mint condition from the early 90s. Sent from my LG-H900 using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 3553_9):
Thank you for all the replies. Im not giving up. I failed to mention that I just moved to nevada. I found out that I can petition the court with all the info I have and go from there. I know a couple of shops putting a lien on it might be easier though Sent from my LG-H900 using Tapatalk