QUESTION ID: 1943

QUESTION:
Hey everyone, Some of you might remember this car. It is a car I bought off BaT a few years ago. It has a supercharged S52 and air ride suspension. Since I have owned the car, it has been EXTENSIVELY gone through by Castro Motorsports to update/ improve all drive train and suspension. Lets just say some things were needed :) All the right parts are on it now and it has working A/C and working air ride. I added some to show in its current state. It is a blast to drive!!! Sounds amazing with the Castro exhaust! Unfortunately, I was rear ended. Not bad, but still need to source some parts. Can you all tell me where I should be looking for parts to replace the ones that are damaged and which parts they are? The tail light is also damaged (does anyone make LED replacements?). Sorry, I am not super familiar with all the options on the e30, I have just always loved them. Thanks for any help you can provide! Kris

ANSWER 1 (id: 1943_1):
I would see about finding someone who will fix that bumper since it isn't that bad. At least get a few professional opinions before thinking about replacing with aftermarket. I once hit a tire with my M3, which cracked my bumper and broke off a good piece of my Evo 2 front spoiler. Shops didn't want to bother fixing it and wanted to replace both $$$. I found a shop who was able to fix them and they've been fine ever since. That was over 20 years ago. With plastic welding and the tech we have today, it should be easier.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1943_2):
Agree with the above, should just be bumper/rub strip, maybe a bumper shock or forward mounting clips worst case. Garagistic/CAtuned sell the MrBodyKitz(IIRC?) repro bumpers if you can't find a stock one. It'll be hard to match the level of red tint on the turn signal unless you do both sides at once. Maybe look into some MHWs or repro stock stuff, almost anything else tends to look awful.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1943_3):
Originally posted by 82eye ebay or parts car for the bumper. garagistic has a repro bumper in black. new is nla. ecs has the black impact strips. Warning: The reproduction may not fit with those over fenders, though they don't fit too well themselves and may flex enough. The aftermarket bumper is a little bulkier than the OE bumper in some areas. I have it on my car, it will also not slide on like stock without modification - the side clips do not fit correctly and it needs to be worked on from the sides.