QUESTION ID: 451

QUESTION:
Hey folks, Recently I discovered that my stock radio had became a heavy paperweight in my car. The issues were that If a cassette is inserted. The mechanism jams itself and prevents the radio from working all together which means It becomes essentially worthless. Plus it would occasionally refuse to work. I've went through all of the best options that requires the least amount of butchery to the original harness and I decided to order a new Continental TR7412 Unit for my 85' 318i. I'm asking in regards how I'm going to wire this properly. The car has a exterior fader above the radio and only 4 speakers, Two near the doors and Two on the Parcel Shelf. It is the standard sound system with no amp. I'd like to make this thread for those who have early model E30's with radio's that are not the CM5905 And CM5908 plus having standard sound systems. I'd appreciate any help for myself and everyone who might run into similar issues in the future.

ANSWER 1 (id: 451_1):
Yes I remembered to order a harness along with the radio, it's hooking up the wiring that I'm figuring out as I do more research in the audio forums, I'll be sure to post pictures during the install.

ANSWER 2 (id: 451_2):
Alright so here's how I connected my wires together. Credit goes to andrewgrhogg's write-up and Uturn's assistance. (https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/for...9#post10081189) Yellow/Red are your left positive front speakers. Yellow/Black are your left positive rear speakers. (Connect with the wires that label the left positive speakers wires) Blue/Red are your right positive front speakers Blue/Black are your right positive rear speakers. (Connect with the wires that label the right positive speakers.) Then go ahead and study BMW's electrical bible. ​​​​​ From here you're going to need to connect the negative speaker wires: Yellow/Brown are your left front and rear negative speaker wires. Blue/Brown are your right front and rear negative speaker wires. You need to take your left negative speaker wires that came with your new head unit and connect them together with the yellow/brown wire. I recommend using the caps in my install picture for an easy installation. Same story goes with the right negative speakers. Twist the copper wires together, cap and twist and then tape them up so they don't go anywhere. After that you need to connect the ground wire (Brown wire from the wiring harness to the black ground wire that comes with the head unit. The Violet wire (pictured) is your 12 volt power wire (shares connector with brown ground wire) that needs to be connected with the assorted wire (pictured as red) Red/Green is the memory wire that needs to be connected with the yellow memory wire from your new head unit. The other wire that shared the same connector with the memory wire is your car light wire, connect that with the orange wire and then connect the new connectors to the head unit. Power the car on and test that the radio is functional and working properly. As for the antenna, I did not connect it because I currently do not have the adapter for it but that will be rectifyed once I get the adapter. Same story goes: connect the power antenna wire (that's the wire with the massive connector pointing out) to the adapter and then connect to the head unit. You should be done like me, Hopefully this helps everyone out! Cheers.