QUESTION ID: 35

QUESTION:
88 325i manual. No start after sitting 2 years I've owned the car for about 12 years. It's been sitting the last 6 about once a year. I'll go put a battery in it. Fire it up, check the fluids, then let it sit again under a cover. It's been sitting about 2 years now since the last time I started it, but I put a battery in it and it just turns over. I put a little starting fluid through the air filter nothing. I'm getting power to the coil but I'm not getting spark so I thought maybe the coil went bad. I replaced the coil with a Bosh replacement. Still won't start the crank shaft position sensor looks like it's in good working order. I'm wondering what possibly has corrosion on it that I could DIY And get this thing running. It's never not started for me. It's got a new clutch. New radiator new front wheel bearings. I have a new cat back exhaust. I need to bolt on. ithe driver's seat. The frame of it broke so I got another driver. 's seat? I just got to swap my foam and Gray leather on to this one and I'm selling it. I want $5000 for it. And I don't think that's a high price for a zero rust model. This car has 0 rust, none around the windshield. None in the wheel, bare well's not even at the battery tray. Its well. Preserved for what it is no all factory stock no performance mods.It hss a little bit of faded paint. But other than that, every single Fender, every single door all has the original Vin numbers right on it? The trunk light has been replaced. Somebody put it 325IS trunk lid on it with a little fin which is fine. I like it, but that won't be a Vin matching. Body panel anyways, what do you guys think?I might be able to check to get this in running Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 35_3):
None of us have EVER done that. Nope. Nor do we admit it when we.. ahem.. don't do it. Suggestion- if it sits that much, fill it up with ethanol- free fuel. Full will evaporate (a bit) slower. The ethanol stabilizers fail after some number of months, and then the ethanol starts to absorb water. Which kills the fuel system in pretty short order. It's sometimes a pain to find, but it's made my life with older gas engines a LOT easier in the aggregate. t corn for pigs, electricity for cars. wait- whut?