QUESTION ID: 3211

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, I figured I'd start this year's thread, since I saw this news article just now: Ecclestone era ended as $8 billion deal sees Liberty Media acquire Formula 1 https://www.rt.com/sport/374957-ecclestone-era-over-f1-takeover/ Long-serving boss of Formula 1, Bernie Ecclestone, has been removed from his position as head of Formula 1 after an $8 billion deal that saw US company Liberty Media take over the sport. Ecclestone is out (although still some kind of honourary president, while Chase Carey takes his spot. Liberty Media has taken over to the tune of $8 Billion.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3211_0):
rt.com? Yikes. Here: Ecclestone Booted From F1 For Not Doing A Good Enough Job, Obviously - Jalopnik http://blackflag.jalopnik.com/1791575916 Once again, it’s time to hear the too-polite way of saying “you weren’t doing your job well enough.” This time, deposed Formula One Chairman Emeritus and deranged muppet Bernie Ecclestone is on the receiving end. New F1 chairman Chase Carey said Ecclestone simply wasn’t growing the sport, hence the decision to replace him.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3211_2):
Originally posted by TobyB ... I got so bored last season... I haven't made it past Monza... formula ffrrrrrrpppp.... t You're gonna want to take a look at the new regs. These cars look like they're going to be animals.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3211_3):
Its going to be an interesting season this year. I think Hamilton is still going to win the title, but it wont be easy for him. I wouldn't be surprised to see McLaren back in podium contention and Red Bull up there again too. Ferrari is going to shit the bed again and Vettel will be looking for a way out by end of the season I would think. That being said, if this season turns into a snooze fest again then I always have the new WRC season to keep me entertained!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3211_5):
I think there is more drama behind the scenes than people can see to be honest. Not to mention they keep wanting Kimi on the team, rather than promote younger, braver talent that can elevate them to the next level. Don't get me wrong, Kimi is fast and great for F1 but I think his time at Ferrari is worn out and they need to start looking at the future. Plus they seem to think that just hiring fast / talented drivers is the key to solving their issues (Seb, Kimi, Alonso, etc...)