QUESTION ID: 509

QUESTION:
Hi r3v, I've googled to the end of the internet and cannot seem to find the right answer, or I'm just not smart enough to understand the wiring schematics. Essentially, when removing the previous owner's aftermarket head unit, a loose, brown wire with black stripe came out. I'm talking about a 12" long piece of wire (definitely an OEM wire) not connected to anything. Stripped back on one end and a clean cut on the other as though it broke off somewhere. I dug in behind the dash but cannot find the end of that wire, or determine where it was coming from directly. There were a total of 3 brown wires with black stripes going to the HU area, though I can't seem to figure out where this one was supposed to go. I have been getting blown fuse #23, which I traced to the headlight switch. I replaced the switch, to no avail. I decided to cut the brown wire with black stripe about 5" up from the headlight switch plug (just to test), assuming it was the broken wire that came out with the aftermarket HU and sure enough, no more short. This leads me to believe the remaining wire from the12" piece of brow/black wire that came out with the aftermarket H/U is shorting out somewhere inside the dash. Easy enough, I can run a fresh wire from the headlight switch plug to wherever it needs to go, but that's the thing... I don't know what this wire does, or where it should go. Is it possibly the illumination wire? Obviously, the car runs without it, but I assume it is needed somewhere. Can anyone advise? It would be super helpful! 1987 325i Vert I think the relevant page of this manual is 6100-2, but it might as well be a foreign language to me 404 Not Found http://www.wedophones.com/Manuals/BMW/1987%20BMW%203%20Series%20Electrical%20Troubleshooting%20Manual.pdf Thank you! JD

ANSWER 1 (id: 509_0):
On Radio with Sound System page 6500-0, there is a BR/BK ground that goes from output 31 of the digital radio, through pin 1 of connector 216, to a three-way splice to (1) pin Y of accessory connector 302 to ground, as well as (2) pin 8 of the fader control and (3) pin 18 of the amplifier. Does your car have the premium sound system with a blaupunkt amp in the left trunk well? I don't think it is an illumination wire from the headlight switch to the digital radio (seems that would be a Gray/Red wire from the headlamp switch to pin 1 of connector 215 to a white wire into input 58 on the radio).

ANSWER 2 (id: 509_1):
Thank you! I believe mine does have an amp, as the trunk area has a square area protruding from the back left, but I haven't pulled the carpet to confirm. Thank you again very much for your help! I will use your summary with the schematic to determine where this is all supposed to route!