QUESTION ID: 3448

QUESTION:
I'm looking for a set of long handle double boxed wrenches sizes 10mm-24mm but 10-19 would be okay too. All my other stuff is Craftsman. Any suggestions? Budget is $65

ANSWER 1 (id: 3448_1):
I switched from Craftsman to Gearwrench recently and I'm very happy with the quality. They don't have a double box set in your price range though, but if you know of a select few sizes you need you can pick from the link below: http://www.tooltopia.com/search.aspx...&category=3831

ANSWER 2 (id: 3448_10):
Sears accused me of stealing my old cutoff wheel after I brought it in to get an exact match. Fuck them But really, I've only found one set of long handle combination wrenches for $50.. looks like this is harder than I thought

ANSWER 3 (id: 3448_11):
I ended up picking up a set of long handle combination wrenches. I needed some larger sizes for A/C lines and found a 10mm-32mm set at harbor freight for $40. Can't beat that!

ANSWER 4 (id: 3448_6):
I never use HF wrenches (although I use their normal sockets for impact duty since I consider them disposable and I like the thin wall) because I'm always worried about stripping something. Are they machined to the same tolerances? My craftsman or gearwrench wrenches can get a solid feel on a nut, I know if the nut strips it wasn't the fault of the tool.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3448_7):
Go to a flea market and look around for used Craftsman...I have a set of double end box wrenches from 6 to 24 mm, and even with my short Snap-Ons, offset Stahlwilles, and Gearwrenches, those old beat up Craftsmans are what I reach for most often. And the advantage of finding flea market items is you can get US-made wrenches, before Sears cheaped out and had them made by the Chicoms.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3448_8):
Originally posted by BobombETA I switched from Craftsman to Gearwrench recently and I'm very happy with the quality. They don't have a double box set in your price range though, but if you know of a select few sizes you need you can pick from the link below: http://www.tooltopia.com/search.aspx...&category=3831 I am also happy with these. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 3448_9):
Have been using Craftsman, Snap-On, GearWrench, and HF tools for a long time, (since the late '80s/early '90s). I have never had much of an issue with most of them. HF has pretty good quality with the same lifetime guarantee of the big names. Especially like HF prices if I have to modify a tool into a specialty one!! Have had to replace 1 wrench that I have bought from HF in all my years of ownership and that was my fault!! No hassles, unlike some other places, and for me HF is a lot closer and easier on the wallet!! I've had to replace way more than that with some of the others! Especially screw drivers!! Get more hassle from Sears than anywhere else and the new tool quality is nothing like their older tools! Just my $.02 worth!