QUESTION ID: 3304

QUESTION:
I currently own a 1988 BMW 325i and it has started giving me problem after problem and I'm a college student, so I don't have much money to keep fixing it but I love this car its my first car and I can not let it go. The day I got this car I told myself I was sticking to it no matter what because I want to invest in it and restore it one day. I don't know what I could possibly because I'm not much of a mechanic. Shoot me some advice on what you think I should do.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3304_0):
Go out buy a set of tools, grab a Bentley manual, and spend a decent amount of time here on r3v. Thats how I started out, it was slow at first but now I'm at least somewhat competent. As for your short term problems I would suggest making a very detailed thread in one of the appropriate subforums and make sure you proof read your post several times so its much easier to read than this one. Theres a lot of helpful guys on here, but since we're communicating over text you need to be as clear as possible. Edit: BTW welcome to r3v!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3304_1):
Originally posted by stonea Go out buy a set of tools, grab a Bentley manual, and spend a decent amount of time here on r3v. Thats how I started out, it was slow at first but now I'm at least somewhat competent. As for your short term problems I would suggest making a very detailed thread in one of the appropriate subforums and make sure you proof read your post several times so its much easier to read than this one. Theres a lot of helpful guys on here, but since we're communicating over text you need to be as clear as possible. Edit: BTW welcome to r3v! This is all excellent advice. Here is the aforementioned Bentley: https://www.amazon.com/BMW-3-Service.../dp/0837616476

ANSWER 3 (id: 3304_2):
You gotta figure out what your priorities are. There's nothing wrong with the advice above. But if college is your priority, and the car is a distraction, there's no shame in putting it to the side for now and concentrating on school. I had a 2002 in high school. I loved that car. In college, it started giving me problems and I didn't have the time, skills, or money to keep it reliable. At the time, I thought it was a "forever" car, but I swallowed my pride, sold it, and finished school. After getting a steady job and buying a house, I got back into BMW's. Looking back, I would do it the same all over again. This is not to say you can't both concentrate on school and cars, lot's of people do it. But that's for you to determine.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3304_3):
A more detailed list of problems would help a lot. It could just be a series of small problems that could be culled with a good round of general maintenance. Also, where are you going to school? Many people on here are more than willing to lend a hand if you need it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3304_4):
Originally posted by YosemiteSam A more detailed list of problems would help a lot. Yep. You've also gotta remember, the cars are 30yrs old now. If you haven't personally replaced something, or there is evidence that it has been replaced, unfortunately the best thing is to assume that at some stage that something is going to need to be replaced.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3304_6):
Originally posted by TobyB The advantage of cars over horses: You can't put a horse up on blocks in your gramma's garage for 3 years. t Sure you can, but you won't get it back in riding condition in 30 minutes like you would a car. OP, what you do with your car very much depends on your actual financial situation, where you work relative to where you live and if you have a place to work on the car. Further, many poor running conditions can be worked out with little investment, but if the car needs a complete overhaul you should probably move on and use the money from the sale to buy something in better condition. Whatever you do, just parking it for later repair isn't the best strategy as you'll be less and less likely to get back to it at this time in your life.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3304_7):
You need to determine what issues it has and a plan of attack for the most pressing repairs. A Bentley manual will help tackle most jobs as well as DIY threads. What specific issues have you had so far? Pics would be great. Had you done the time belt and water pump? What do the suspension bushings look like? Is the rubber cracked? Is there play in anything? How's the guibo? How do the hoses look in the engine? Any major leaks you can see? How are the brake pads/calipers? Any strange noises while driving around? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 3304_8):
Originally posted by stonea Go out buy a set of tools, grab a Bentley manual, and spend a decent amount of time here on r3v. Thats how I started out, it was slow at first but now I'm at least somewhat competent. As for your short term problems I would suggest making a very detailed thread in one of the appropriate subforums and make sure you proof read your post several times so its much easier to read than this one. Theres a lot of helpful guys on here, but since we're communicating over text you need to be as clear as possible. Edit: BTW welcome to r3v! This is probably the most solid piece of advice this thread can give you. I was in the same boat as you almost 4 years ago. I was a relative novice at auto mechanics. I started with smallet easier jobs, then moved up. Always checked the Bentley and research online. I've done over 90% of the work that my car has needed in the last 4 years. You too can do it.

ANSWER 9 (id: 3304_9):
Do have a place you could store it. You could prep it for storage, get a decent cover, and set it aside till your done with school. There are cheap reliable beaters out there, one of those would get you through college on little coin, as long as you don't mind driving around a basic car.