QUESTION ID: 1605

QUESTION:
the threads on mine were summarily destroyed while removing a seized axle nut and the whole stub end is ruined. Trying to track down one decent one or if it needs rebuilding it’s fjne as I’ve got the others at axles Unlimited in NC currently. Appreciate any leads

ANSWER 1 (id: 1605_0):
Next time, leave the nut on there while hammering on it. Or better yet, use an air chisel with a pointy bit and set that in the hole at the end of the axle. If you find a destroyed parts axle, you can disassemble the cv joints on both axles and build one good one.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1605_1):
I use a hub puller to press mine out. I would never use a hammer on an axle that costs $1200 new. That's an unfortunate lesson. :( Before I got new hubs, I could push them out with my finger (because I had lubed them and done it so many times). The new hubs weren't machined as nicely so I have to press them off again.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1605_11):
Originally posted by nando I wish you could "like" posts here, lol Really though! Its 2019 these forums need to catch up with Instagram and Facebook haha

ANSWER 4 (id: 1605_13):
I'm happy we don't employ any of that functionality. Liking a post has absolutely zero value other than inflating the ego of whoever authored it. It's a message board, not a popularity contest. Also, get off my damned lawn!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1605_2):
Yeah no hammer was used on the actual shaft. Unfortunately the axle nut couldn’t be lodged loose despite days of pb blaster, heat, notching the bolt and hitting it with an air hammer/chisel. When the nut finally split the threads on the end had been so damaged that I couldn’t chase them and wouldn’t feel comfortable using it again. I can keep it as spare parts but that’s about it.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1605_3):
Take a picture of the threads, if it's just in one spot, just chase the threads and drill a hole through it and put a cotterpin through it. Can't mess it up anymore than it is?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1605_4):
I've never even bothered to use those stupid lock plates on the front axles, and I've had an ix for a long damn time (and beat the crap out of it on the track). Yeah, I think it'd have to be pretty badly damaged to be totally unusable. I mean really. I have to stand on the breaker bar to torque the thing enough so the bearing doesn't fall apart (well, maybe not anymore - I'm old and fat now). Anything past that is gravy. It's not going to come off on it's own - ever. I have a saying now, 'gutentite'. Unless it's TTY (stretch bolts), it really doesn't matter too much. Even buildings and critical infrastructure in high seismic areas only get bolted together by feel - 'snug tight', per the engineers. For real. And most of the iron workers out there bolting shit together are idiots. So don't worry so much about it on a $3000 car....

ANSWER 8 (id: 1605_7):
Originally posted by CPTFelch Yeah no hammer was used on the actual shaft. Unfortunately the axle nut couldn’t be lodged loose despite days of pb blaster, heat, notching the bolt and hitting it with an air hammer/chisel. When the nut finally split the threads on the end had been so damaged that I couldn’t chase them and wouldn’t feel comfortable using it again. I can keep it as spare parts but that’s about it. Do you know what a thread file is? Google it... it may save the part. What's size are those threads?

ANSWER 9 (id: 1605_8):
Yeah the stub end wa so retry toast. Luckily found a spare axle local here so rebuild is back underway. Though might need a spare just to keep it around. Nando - good to know about the locking plates. Yep familiar with all the ways to correct the threads. Though drilling and running a castle nut and cotter pin is not a bad idea.