QUESTION ID: 2403

QUESTION:
Hey, So i hit a sheet if black ice while driving down a curvy slope on a country road, luckily i was going slow and am completely fine, but my 325ix isn’t looking so good :( it hit the median as i lost traction - i managed to snap a couple of photos before the tow truck came, trying to figure out my next move. The frame did have rust and i was going to get the pinch welds repaired. Engine has 230k, interior in great shape. I am super sad and this was my only vehicle. Any advice in what to look for damage wise? thanks,

ANSWER 1 (id: 2403_0):
As far as the body, look at door shut lines, check out the chassis members just aft of the bumper shock mounts, and look for seam sealer separation anywhere in the engine bay. Undoubtedly, if covered by insurance the car will be totaled, but that's not to say that it's not repairable.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2403_1):
Eh. That'll buff. ix is actually at a bit of a disadvantage on very slippery ice, as the diffs work against you. It's like the ONLY scenario that a 1 or 2 wd car stands a (slightly) better chance. Where you at? That (along with RT's analysis) determines how viable a fix is, or a 'mechanic's special' will go for. t would try to fix, based on pix and piles of spare parts in shed.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2403_2):
Thanks for the responses, I am New York. The frame was good, mostly the radiator support was mangled and needs to be replaced along with some body panels. I have been sourcing some parts at fair prices. But the bodyshop quote is feels quite high for labor and paint. Attached Files

ANSWER 4 (id: 2403_4):
Originally posted by dlmrun2002 Where in NY R U? I might have a guy who can get you a good price on body work and paint. Small shop just for BMW's. dlm ny country Hudson Valley hey, so the car is out in Hempstead right now. I was able to work something out with the shop. Hoping to be up and running in a couple weeks. thanks so much for the responses, the car may come out of this better than before... :)