QUESTION ID: 2732

QUESTION:
as some of you know, i have been looking for a set of Euro Recaro e30 seats. after almost a year of searching, they finally arrived this week. this was the last major "alpina" part i needed for my build. they will need to be recovered. i plan to buy the alpina material that brandon/marek is selling but i am still trying to decide between the leather and fabric. I found this seat on craigslist in Denver. i bought it for parts but i am really digging the leather. i think if i can find another one to go with it, i will go this route instead of fabric. that way i can just replace the center part and they will probably hold up better. guten had a set of these in black leather at a reasonable price, but after pestering him for about 5 weeks to send me some better pics, i gave up on him. if anyone happens to know where i can get my hands on another seat like the last pic, please drop me a message...

ANSWER 1 (id: 2732_0):
Go leather! But if you stick to cloth, you could pretty easily reupholster them yourself if you have a sewing machine. Doing the double saddle stich on seat grade leather seems to be a tough task.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2732_1):
I say stick to cloth. I've never understood why people like leather. It's slippery, hot in the summer, cold in the winter and is WAY more maintenance than cloth. It is slightly more durable in the long term, but only slightly, and that's only if properly taken care of.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2732_10):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 How ever I get what you mean I was an auto detailer kids are fucking dirty little monsters haha I once spent 4 hours working OJ and chocolate milk out of the back seat of a Subaru one day it was terrible god! what a nightmare!! i'll be talking to you sooner than later bud. thank you again for sending that fabric swatch. is it possible to get one of the checked leather too?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2732_11):
My Recaro seats arrived from Poland this week Originally posted by Cephas Sounds terrible! And I'm sure it smelled glorious once that concoction heated up in the summer sun. It was the heat of summer in an un air conditioned shop when i did that. So i'll tell you exactly how that shit smelled haha. Not pleasant. Originally posted by flyboyx god! what a nightmare!! i'll be talking to you sooner than later bud. Sounds good fyi if you buy it like right now from blunttech you get free shipping and it for 90 a yard. I'm distributing through them and dealin dave is doing a special. Also here some pics of a set we had redone in our fabric so you can see for your self how kick ass it is haha

ANSWER 5 (id: 2732_13):
Originally posted by flyboyx Those look really good. Who did the reupholstery? also, can you send a sample of the checked leather? marek does upholstery work. i can get you a sample mailed i dont have any here.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2732_3):
Gonna have to agree with them especially cause your in Texas and it gets hot there. I hated my leather seats. I would get in and burn my back and legs.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2732_7):
Originally posted by AndrewBird I say stick to cloth. I've never understood why people like leather. It's slippery, hot in the summer, cold in the winter and is WAY more maintenance than cloth. It is slightly more durable in the long term, but only slightly, and that's only if properly taken care of. Same reason I don't like carpeted floors in a house. no way cloth is as easy to maintain - it stains easily, gets stuck with dust/hair, and is pretty easy to tear as well. If/when you have kids, you will understand. :)

ANSWER 8 (id: 2732_8):
Originally posted by nando Same reason I don't like carpeted floors in a house. no way cloth is as easy to maintain - it stains easily, gets stuck with dust/hair, and is pretty easy to tear as well. If/when you have kids, you will understand. :) Our alpina fabric is treated for stains and is enough to do bolsters so in his case he would have zero worries. How ever I get what you mean I was an auto detailer kids are fucking dirty little monsters haha I once spent 4 hours working OJ and chocolate milk out of the back seat of a Subaru one day it was terrible

ANSWER 9 (id: 2732_9):
Originally posted by ThatOneEuroE30 I once spent 4 hours working OJ and chocolate milk out of the back seat of a Subaru one day it was terrible Sounds terrible! And I'm sure it smelled glorious once that concoction heated up in the summer sun.