QUESTION ID: 3580

QUESTION:
Hey so I'm in Webster Tx near Houston lost keys to my e30 order a replacement with vin from dealer it doesn't worth maybe be cause my car has salvage title but I need a key cut ASAP since I lost mind in the middle of repair who in houst can do it cheap and fast Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3580_0):
1. Slow down. 2. Proper English is necessary for effective communication on the Internet. 3. If you lost your keys, a dealership VIN cut key is your only option. Might be $40, might be $80. Call some dealerships near you and ask.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3580_4):
if they keys you ordered from the dealershi pdon't work then either they took down the wrong VIN or someone replaced all your door locks at one point. Check the receipt you got from the dealership to make sure and compare it with the VINs on your dash AND body panels.. if it all matches then you have to break into your car and replace new lock cylinders with new keys so they match

ANSWER 3 (id: 3580_7):
Originally posted by BobombETA Keys dealer money vin number shipping fast this man knows how to speak OPs language. VIN cut key might not work as others have mentioned. My idiot friend locked me keys in my trunk a few years ago and so I got a VIN cut key, it wasnt the right type of key I wanted, so I made them get me another one cut free. Now I have two VIN cut keys that dont match anything in my car :rofl: someday I will get the tumblers matched to the VIN

ANSWER 4 (id: 3580_8):
Holy crap haven't you people ever heard of getting a spare key cut and keeping it somewhere safe? It's not like it's expensive. Even when I only had the one worn-out key that came with my car to use as an original, I had a copy cut just in case. Then I got a fresh key from the dealer and had 3 copies of it made right away. The dealer-cut steel key sits in my safe, I only use the nickel-plated brass copies, reduces wear on the tumbler pins.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3580_9):
One spare? You need more than that. Two every day keys at the front door, plus one spare. And then a spare in the safe. And then another spare by the front door. :rofl: