QUESTION ID: 3615

QUESTION:
Here's the story: During a huge ice storm that has been doing serious damage to our property over the last few days, I heard something that sounded like a strike of lightning right outside the house. The next morning, I discovered that the sound must have been caused by an enormous tree branch that fell off and had landed on my 1988 320i (the "branch" in question probably weighing as much as the car itself). I started to think the worst. What if it was totaled? How would I ever replace it? A classic car like that didn't deserve this kind of abuse! I tried to remain calm, but on the inside I was preemptively weeping. The position the branch landed in was only about an inch away from smashing the back end of the car and totaling it. Nooooo!!! Oh @#$%, this looks bad... please no broken glass.... WOW, that was close! The branch was resting on the back of the car, putting the suspension to the test. My poor car buried alive under fallen icy branches. :( Can you spot the E30 behind this mess? That tree sure loves my car. Upon closer inspection, the 320 escaped with minor damage - a smashed tail light and a few dents - but was lucky to escape with its life. :)

ANSWER 1 (id: 3615_3):
Whew, great to see it was mostly unharmed! Something like this happened to my Dad's M535i a long time ago. Same deal: big storm, loud crack, and he looks outside to see the car completely covered in a big branch. Somehow, he pulled the branch off and it had made a tree-cage around the car! Basically no damage.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3615_4):
Originally posted by ButtJuice Haha glad the damage was only minor. Nice looking car btw! Thanks, man. :) Originally posted by Shock(/\)ave Is this is proof the E30 is God's chariot? ;D I would have to say yes. Wait a minute, do I know you? Originally posted by ELVA164 Whew, great to see it was mostly unharmed! Something like this happened to my Dad's M535i a long time ago. Same deal: big storm, loud crack, and he looks outside to see the car completely covered in a big branch. Somehow, he pulled the branch off and it had made a tree-cage around the car! Basically no damage. Whoa, that's crazy! Glad your dad's car survived. Update: The car was able to be driven out under its own power from the branch that was pinning it down, and is now parked safely away from any other potential falling branches. It's going to need some minor body work, but I still feel lucky... it was a hell of a close call! The offending branch has been cut up with a chainsaw and will soon be incinerated in our wood stove. :devil: