QUESTION ID: 231

QUESTION:
Heya!! I recently purchased this e30 vert from BaT: No Reserve: 1992 BMW 325i Convertible https://bringatrailer.com/listing/1992-bmw-325i-convertible-7/ Bid for the chance to own a No Reserve: 1992 BMW 325i Convertible at auction with Bring a Trailer, the home of the best vintage and classic cars online. Lot #83,980. Not bad for $8500! I knew about the suspension issue, yet still think I got a good deal. This is my 2nd e30 vert and I have had many e36s, to include a 520rwhp supercharged build, but I couldn't resist this one! The stance is currently much higher in the front than it is the rear Anyway, I figured that it was bad shocks in the rear, however that did not change the stance. I then got some additional info from the seller: I think the person who had it previously actually had different springs and different wheels / tires in it. Before she sold it to me, she had it switched back - and they put wrong springs in at that time possibly Ok, so that would have been good tp know before switching shocks, but ok, at least I know it's springs... (You can probably tell where this is going...) I bought a set of OEM rear springs (for the vert) on Rock Auto , switched those out, and no change. I am frustrated but will get it right. Before throwing more parts at it, trying to get the front lower and level with the rear, I figured I would check here and see what advice I could get. Could they have just switched the fronts and rears, or possible to have put some other non-oem springs on? Are e30 verts stanced like this by design? I certainly dont remember it on my 318i vert, and it looks bad and you feel like you are driving on an angle when sitting. Could this be something worse like subframe damage? I appreciate all of the help and support. - Doug in Dallas

ANSWER 1 (id: 231_0):
Springs cannot be reversed front to rear. Honestly, the stance looks fairly factory to me, especially if you remember this was designed in a time when actualy usability (imagine, suspension travel and ride compliance!) was more important than looks. You can independently lower the front slightly or raise the rear with factory parts if you do not like this look.

ANSWER 2 (id: 231_1):
Verts have lower rear arches and are heavier in the rear. If you actually look at the rocker line on your car, it looks pretty straight front to rear. Also, vert springs are specific to the cabrio models. They have a higher spring rate because verts are heavier. I'm not saying it CAN'T be done, but it's highly unlikely you got the correct "OEM" vert springs from RockAuto. Happy to be proved wrong there, though. Most aftermarket stock coil spring manufactures don't include all of the subtle differences between E30 models, they just list one spring for all e30 models. I actually just checked rockauto and they don't even have a 325iC listing for 1992, so yeah, it's highly unlikely you have the correct rear springs on there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 231_2):
The fender arches are much lower in the rear. They never look level if you are judging by the fender arches, unless you slam the front and/or raise the rear. Then, judging by the rocker panel it will look very forward-raked.

ANSWER 4 (id: 231_3):
Rocker line as mentioned. But the front does seem higher.. And sometime bilsteins will do this. Did Early body Verts have lower rear fenders? I though That was just and Early / Late thing?

ANSWER 5 (id: 231_4):
Originally posted by moatilliatta Rocker line as mentioned. But the front does seem higher.. And sometime bilsteins will do this. Did Early body Verts have lower rear fenders? I though That was just and Early / Late thing? believe earlier cars had low rear arches, but the facelift ones were more pronounced. also second the thought it is more noticeable with billies. e90 drop hats may work here. i'm using a billie / h&r combo and may consider it depending on where i end up.

ANSWER 6 (id: 231_5):
Verts have lower rear arches and are heavier in the rear. If you actually look at the rocker line on your car, it looks pretty straight front to rear. Also, vert springs are specific to the cabrio models. They have a higher spring rate because verts are heavier. I'm not saying it CAN'T be done, but it's highly unlikely you got the correct "OEM" vert springs from RockAuto. Happy to be proved wrong there, though. Most aftermarket stock coil spring manufactures don't include all of the subtle differences between E30 models, they just list one spring for all e30 models. I actually just checked rockauto and they don't even have a 325iC listing for 1992, so yeah, it's highly unlikely you have the correct rear springs on there. They don't have it listed, but they do have different springs for the convertible vs. coupe/sedan. When you click into the suspension -> coil springs, it is there. It may just be like that, the guy I bought it from sent me a picture of another one of his stock e30 vert, and the stance is very similar, with it lower in the rear. The plan was just to get it level and drive it for 6 months - 1 year, and then throw some airbags on it. I may just start planning that now then. Here is my daily driver: - Doug in Dallas

ANSWER 7 (id: 231_6):
All verts had the lower rear arches which gives them a reverse rake look. Simple solution is to lower the front and/or raise the rear. You can use drop hats, remove spring pads, etc to lower the front and stack thicker spring pads in the rear. This will give you more rake and even it out a bit. This is the easiest and cheapest way if you don't want to change springs. However, this will give you a small height adjustment of maybe 1/2". Vert springs sport springs are vert specific...anything else is wrong for the car although other E30 springs will fit.