QUESTION ID: 277

QUESTION:
Hey there, im running ie stage iii's, bilestein sports, e36 shock mounts in back, oem m3 offset cabs up front basically if i'm taking a corner or something and hit a dip in th road, or jst hit some really bumpy terrain, i hear a rattle of some sort from the rear, i dont think it could be my shock mounts in the rear because i've only had the suspension in for like a year

ANSWER 1 (id: 277_10):
i know you said you dont think its them but id put 10 bucks on rsms, iirc they didnt update the design till e46 and ive had rsms go bad if a few months

ANSWER 2 (id: 277_11):
Originally posted by DarkWing6 Your car is falling apart. Dump that pile. Check the shock mounts. I don't think it is them, but I went with e30 instead of e36 cause Patrick said he has had a lot of e30 guys calling back that have used those cause they went bad fast. damn.. i guess i'll check those.. how the hell can i tell if they're focked.

ANSWER 3 (id: 277_12):
Check your exhaust. My car makes a nice banging noise around sharp left turns. This is because my exhaust flops to the side and hits my side valance. Sucks, but all the more reason to get aftermarket exhaust. Just get behind and see if you can shake it enough to have it hit the rear valance.

ANSWER 4 (id: 277_6):
Originally posted by StereoInstaller1 My swaybar endlinks keep slipping off of the sway, making a small klunk. Luke how can i tell if thats the problem while im driving?

ANSWER 5 (id: 277_7):
Originally posted by asubimmer sounds dumb but what about the battery or spare? K.I.S.S. True that. My battery had slipped out from under the retainer and was rattling. Now something else is...

ANSWER 6 (id: 277_8):
Its not the spare or the battery, i checked both, the rattling comes from both sides, depends on which side is hitting the bump in the road. its gotta be a pretty decent bump like a minor pothole or bumpy pavement, or some speed bumps if i rush over them too fast (more than like 2 mph)

ANSWER 7 (id: 277_9):
Your car is falling apart. Dump that pile. Check the shock mounts. I don't think it is them, but I went with e30 instead of e36 cause Patrick said he has had a lot of e30 guys calling back that have used those cause they went bad fast.