QUESTION ID: 1417

QUESTION:
Hi guys, Wanted to post on here and introduce myself. This past saturday, I picked up a fun side project - a Laguna Green 1991 e30 318i convertible. My eventual goal will be to make this a nice weekend driver while keeping it OEM/OEM+. The car has around 185k(odo broken), interior is in great shape, top is decent, exterior needs TLC(clearcoat peeling/hazy, trim pieces missing, lower bumper valance jacked up, bumpers scuffed, slight wheel well rust, etc). But, engine and transmission feel good and it drives rather well. The suspension is shot too, h&r+bilstein sports are in the future. I just ordered the odometer gear set from garagistic so will fix that first. After that it's time to dive in! About me - I have past experience with older Audis and had an e39 m5 for a while but sold it last year(too fast). This is my first experience with an e30. Over the next 6 months, I'll be slowly bringing the car back to its former glory. I've been reading up on the m42 and heard great things about it - from my drive home, it felt fun and light and happy to rev. The whole car feels great and I am excited about this project. Anyway, I'm located in NE DC near Union Station and excited to join this forum/community!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1417_1):
Originally posted by TimeMachinE30 College Park meet ups at Starbucks lot on Cherry Lane @ Rte. 1. Good group of guys. Agreed. Good group of guys. I wish I made my way down there more often. I think it's on Fridays lol. You should go if you can haha.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1417_2):
Welcome! There may be other options closer to DC, but Blue Ridge Sports Cars in Baltimore knows BMWs and has great customer service. The owner stayed late one night to perform maintenance and address some issues on my Touring when I bought it in Baltimore. The price they charged was also reasonable. cory

ANSWER 3 (id: 1417_3):
Hey! I'm on the NW side of DC (though I used to live up at 8th and F NE) and daily an '87 325i Delphin/Cardinal vert. I take my car up to Zimmerman Automotive in Gaithersburg, and Dan does great work for a fair price! http://zimmermanautomotive.com/ PM me if you want to arrange some kind of meet here in the District!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1417_4):
I'm up in Baltimore pretty often and do a lot of work with Baltimore Bimmers. They do great work and aren't afraid to get creative. Josh, the owner, got the AC running on my S52 swap.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1417_5):
Originally posted by OSU Bimmer Fan Hey! I'm on the NW side of DC (though I used to live up at 8th and F NE) and daily an '87 325i Delphin/Cardinal vert. I take my car up to Zimmerman Automotive in Gaithersburg, and Dan does great work for a fair price! http://zimmermanautomotive.com/ PM me if you want to arrange some kind of meet here in the District! Thanks! I actually have met Dan already and bought a few parts off of him. Good to know he does decent work too! I hope to have this thing registered soon.