QUESTION ID: 2815

QUESTION:
I currently have 2 e30 m3s an all-original henna 88 with s14, perfect investment car and a 91 diamond black m3 with a s50 swapped in. Currently, the 91 has been my "rat rod" m3, a car that I am content with driving around occasionally and not totally terrified of it experiencing some damage. It is cosmetically rough and since it doesnt have the original interior or s14, its value is less than the other car. That being said, the car is in desperate need of a paint job. Wanted to get some thoughts and opinions that might influence my decision on color. Diamond black is not my favorite color, although im sure if I saw a freshly-painted example, I might like it more. I am slowly trying to source some interior parts and get it back to a street-comfortable car (it is currently gutted with a cage). That being said, im not trying to be foolish with my money and put money into a paintjob that will make the car less valuable - after all, I do like the way the market is going on these cars. I have decided that I cannot justify a full repaint including the engine bay, door sills, trunk, etc. and will just be doing the exterior. To this end, I feel that is is best to stick with a dark color as not to bring out any significant contrast between the original factory color and the color I choose - I absolutely hate seeing a two-tone car when you open the door/hood/trunk. I have narrowed down my decision to repainting the car a dark variation of blue (interlagos, san merino, etc.), which generally has a very dark base coat in the door jambs, trunk, and engine bay, OR a variation of black (jet, diamond, carbon black). The question is, will the repaint of something other than diamond black greatly adversely affect the car's value? I would be dumping a decent amount of money into the paint job and just dont want to screw myself on diminished value due to a repaint, or is it a non-issue since the car already has a non-s14, and non-original M3 interior? Thanks for your opinions!

ANSWER 1 (id: 2815_1):
I would paint it whatever color you want. Drive the crap out of it. Have fun now and don't worry about resale value, what if you never sell it (opinion of someone not financially responsible enough to offer better advice). ...also post a pic of it here.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2815_10):
Originally posted by Kershaw s14.net might have a better answer for you. All you'll find here is rusty bronzits with the clear scratched by 30 years of non touchless car washes. LOL...and multiple threads on Trump.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2815_11):
Originally posted by 2mAn Carbon black. Its close enough and is IMO the best looking black EVER made :devil: considering I bought a 04m3 brand new back in the day in Carbon black, then painted my twinscrewed e36 m3 carbon black, it would be a nice way to round out the series.. LOL. I LOVE that color.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2815_2):
IMO whatever you do, do it 100% or don't do it. You will likely never be fully happy with the "paint car dark color and leave jams and engine bay DS" game plan. Even if it's "just for you" because it's a forever car, I've learned that there is rarely such thing, so it's best to keep in mind the "what if" sceneario in which you had to sell the car. Having different color jams and engine bay is going to kill potential interest for the caliber of buyer you'll be looking for if you ever decided to sell. A DS respray would without a doubt be my first choice if the car needs paint that bad, second to a full color change ($$$). Can you get away with a quality cut, polish and seal? If it's your driver car, an aspect of that freedom you currently have with the car will likely be gone after paint, too. Just something else to consider.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2815_3):
Originally posted by AWDBOB IMO whatever you do, do it 100% or don't do it. You will likely never be fully happy with the "paint car dark color and leave jams and engine bay DS" game plan. Even if it's "just for you" because it's a forever car, I've learned that there is rarely such thing, so it's best to keep in mind the "what if" sceneario in which you had to sell the car. Having different color jams and engine bay is going to kill potential interest for the caliber of buyer you'll be looking for if you ever decided to sell. A DS respray would without a doubt be my first choice if the car needs paint that bad, second to a full color change ($$$). Can you get away with a quality cut, polish and seal? If it's your driver car, an aspect of that freedom you currently have with the car will likely be gone after paint, too. Just something else to consider. tahnks bob. Paint is gone, polish will not bring it back. Many factory colors have schwartz as the base coat in the engine bay, so it wouldnt be so bad. but I do see what youre saying. Thats the only thing swaying me towards diamond black respray, otherwise it would be san merino or carbon black for sure!

ANSWER 6 (id: 2815_4):
There's nothing like a nice, clean, fresh DS paint job. That would be my vote. We all have a car that we plan to keep forever, but if the time comes, and you do need to sell, at least it will be the same color as the engine bay, jambs, etc, and won't scare off potential buyers. I've considered painting my red car Daytonaviolett for about five years...even though I know, that I will be the last person to own that car, things change and it would be tough to sell that to someone else, if that were the case. There's also the whole "door ding factor", that I consider very frequently, and have done the whole "show car" thing, and it sucks. The driver quality and "rougher" cars are, arguably, the most fun, since you don't have to worry about those kinds of things. At the end of the day, though, it is your car - nobody else's - yet. Do what makes you happy.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2815_6):
If you are worried about value, then do the original color. If you have enough money that you don't mind losing thousands in value down the road, paint it whatever.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2815_8):
Originally posted by kronus wrap it? that was my thought too, but most companies don't wrap cars with paint older than ten years as the danger is quite high to rip off the clearcoat when you remove it. Plus you need good even paint underneath the wrap for it not to show through.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2815_9):
My white M3 was originally white, painted red at some point and back to white. Full color changes are labor intensive but can be done well with enough work. I currently have a swapped DS car that was repainted Sepang Bronze by the previous owner. Everything except the engine bay, interior and trunk floors were resprayed and it's not a big deal. DS being a dark black/gray color doesn't look out of place in the engine bay. I will say you should at least do the door jambs though. I will always say to respray the car the original color but if you are adamant about a particular color that's close...go ahead. Especially, if the car has been swapped and has non original interior.