QUESTION ID: 3541

QUESTION:
What's up r3v! Just seeing if anyone on here or a family member or similar has put their car up for sale through BaT. How was the process, was it worth it and would you recommend them? Anything helps, thanks r3v!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3541_0):
Process was simple, yes it was worth it, yes I'd recommend them (I mean, who would do a better job?![ebay? phaw!]). Good luck, what are you putting up?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3541_1):
Originally posted by SkiFree Process was simple, yes it was worth it, yes I'd recommend them (I mean, who would do a better job?![ebay? phaw!]). Good luck, what are you putting up? I've heard nothing but good things about them online but never known anyone to put something through them so I'm definitely interested. If the buyer flakes on me this Sunday for my M3, I think I'm gonna see if they'll take it in to put it up there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3541_2):
I'll be selling my series 2 Alfa Spider soon, a guy I spoke with at a parts supplier recently told me about a guy asking $xxxx for his car and it going for over twice that on BaT. Was considering looking into it

ANSWER 4 (id: 3541_3):
It seems to be the place to sell your ride if it fits the target. Not sure what their vetting process is, but lightly modified or nicely presented stock vehicles seem to perform well there. The exception is rusty 356's. Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3541_4):
Originally posted by djjerme It seems to be the place to sell your ride if it fits the target. Not sure what their vetting process is, but lightly modified or nicely presented stock vehicles seem to perform well there. The exception is rusty 356's. Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk Everytime I see one of your comments, I give you a like lol Their process is though though, I would imagine, but I know my car is clean, especially by current E36 standards. We'll see what happens!

ANSWER 6 (id: 3541_7):
Originally posted by 2mAn I think the E36 ///M will do ok, but the car is still an auto. At least its all original. A guy at the meet on Sunday was interested and drove it and was very impressed with the car mechanically and cosmetically but just couldn't bring himself to pull the trigger because of the auto. Slightly bummed but my Dad actually wants to buy it as of 48 minutes ago. May stay in the family...

ANSWER 7 (id: 3541_8):
...careful, you may get roped in to doing a manual swap anyways. "Gee son, remember all those years you got free room and board and I even fed you? Well, I got this outstanding bill to cover and I think a 6 speed might cover some of that.." Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 3541_9):
Originally posted by djjerme ...careful, you may get roped in to doing a manual swap anyways. "Gee son, remember all those years you got free room and board and I even fed you? Well, I got this outstanding bill to cover and I think a 6 speed might cover some of that.." Sent from my 710C using Tapatalk He's keeping it auto as well lol