QUESTION ID: 3045

QUESTION:
Ahhhhhhhhh. Where to start? I am fully aware that that I am most likely about to become a R3V meme. How many times can one kid fuck up, well I did it again. Nope no crash this time, but something much much worse. Now let's start from the beginning.... Many of you will remember that I crashed my e30 a while back. I was broke couldn't fix it and well, that whole story is on another thread. Long story short about 2 weeks after crashing it I got a job at a car wash. I started working full time (about 36 hours a week) on top of school and quickly started paying off the $3500 that I owed my parents. I make pretty good money for a highschooler at the was because tips are pretty good. I'd say I make about 1.5-2k a month. So I got the $ I owed my parents done to about $1200 and things were going good. The e30 was close to fixed and I was now making good money. So I thought hmmm, I want something newer and faster. I looked at many cars and decided I wanted an e90 328i and my budget was 12k. My grandparents said they would loan me the money to be payed off over 36 months at 2.5% interest. They knew I had a good job and that I really wanted a nicer car so they didn't mind. After looking for a while I stumble across a 2012 F30 Sportline, clean title fully optioned out on Craigslist for 16.5k and I was like damn this is so nice if I can talk him down to 14k I will take a 14k loan and buy it. The guy was super nice or so I thought. He was about a 60 year old man who was a car dealer for 15 years and now worked restoring RV's. He said the car was in great shape and he had daily driven it for the past 3 months. He had a full Carfax and everything looked good. I didn't think I needed a PPI because he told me if there was anything at all wrong with the car there would be dash warning lights on. Made sense to me. These cars have a sensor for everything. He got the car from a towing company who auctioned it off. The past owner got a DUII in it and never payed his impound fees. So the towing company auctioned it off. It showed on the car fax the car had been serviced at a BMW dealer a month before I brought it and new tires and brakes had been put on. So I was like how could anything be wrong it was just serviced. The guy seemed totally honest and after him saying no at first I managed to talk him down to 14. He also told me that he could get 14 for it at a dealer auction so there was no way he would go any lower. So the deal happened pretty fast. He didn't have the title in hand, but the car fax guaranteed it was clean or they would buy the car back so no biggie there. My parents didn't want me to get it but I annoyed them so much about it that they didn't care. So, I buy the car for 14k about 15 minutes into driving it a turn sharp going slow in a parking lot and a chassis stabilization light comes on. I turn the car off and it goes away. I called him to ask and he said that the car has just been sitting in an impound lot and it was just a little quirk that would go away. Starting to worry...... So about 2 weeks of driving it and this noise starts happening when I turn sharp. A grinding noise. I take the car to a shop they put it up on the rack and take all the plastic off the bottom and basically say, this car has been crashed bad. Everything is all apoxied up and the 3/4 control arms are bent, steering rack has a crack and it bent. So I am like shit, so I start getting the control arms fixed and the power steering completely dies on me. I bought a "new" used sport steering rack and had that put in and of course with my luck this "tested part" with a warranty on it is broken. Since I supplied the shop that put it in with the part they had no warrenty on it. So now I am trying to get another used steering rack and return this one but am still out the $400 labor it was to put the broken rack in. Also the place where the rack connects to the car is all screwed up so that needs to be replaced. The shop it is at just found that the oil pan is also cracked and needs to be replaced. The wiring where the steering rack connects to the car is also all screwed up. Then once I can finally get a new rack in it needs to be coded by Bmw. Then after all that is done hopefully the car will work and I can try to sell it. As of now I have a 14k loan and an f30 that is very broken. Great. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3045_0):
Boy, you can't catch a break. I don't know why buying a $14k car in your teens makes sense to begin with, but that's really none of my business. Sounds like you're kinda screwed, unless there's some sort of legal business I'm not aware of. Most used car bills of sale have the "as is" clause, but I don't know how much legal weight that really carries. Also, where does this leave the E30? Did you sell it? Is it fixed? Why would you need something faster?

ANSWER 2 (id: 3045_10):
Originally posted by Balleristic31 If you are a minor, and he didn't get permission from your parents, you MAY have a void contract. Again, talk to an attorney. No, he was a dealer he knows the system. My mom agreed that the car was being sold as is im pretty sure. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3045_11):
"used to be a dealer" BOOOM RED FLAG ... no 100% honest used car salesman exists, as far as I am concerned. looks like a hard knock you had to learn, I am sorry. but are you trying to impress the cheerleaders or what? a car this new is not an investment, you will never sell it for more, or even equal to what you paid - wrecked or not. seems like an impulse buy lol this is only the beginning of the not-so-cheap maintenance bills to come! not very smart of you, but good luck.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3045_12):
Originally posted by 5Toes "used to be a dealer" BOOOM RED FLAG ... no 100% honest used car salesman exists, as far as I am concerned. looks like a hard knock you had to learn, I am sorry. but are you trying to impress the cheerleaders or what? a car this new is not an investment, you will never sell it for more, or even equal to what you paid - wrecked or not. seems like an impulse buy lol this is only the beginning of the not-so-cheap maintenance bills to come! not very smart of you, but good luck. Was an impulse buy. The only way my parents would let me get a faster car is if it was safer than the e30. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 5 (id: 3045_13):
I agree wholeheartedly that this entire decision was impulsive and really really stupid. Several points pop up: 1) Had a budget (not a reasonable budget, of course, especially for a kid in high school), saw something cool, and threw that shit out of the window. Stupid. 2) Didn't get a PPI on a very serious purchase. Seriously stupid. 3) Begged and complained at your parents til they eventually caved in. Also stupid. 4) Now you think you can fix it and sell it for more. Man, I feel like we are going to see a lot more laugh out loud stories from you in the future. I don't really feel for ya. But good luck, I 'spose.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3045_3):
Originally posted by ELVA164 Boy, you can't catch a break. I don't know why buying a $14k car in your teens makes sense to begin with, but that's really none of my business. Sounds like you're kinda screwed, unless there's some sort of legal business I'm not aware of. Most used car bills of sale have the "as is" clause, but I don't know how much legal weight that really carries. Also, where does this leave the E30? Did you sell it? Is it fixed? Why would you need something faster? The e30 is completely fixed and I am daily driving it. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 7 (id: 3045_4):
Wow, that car smells lemony fresh. Looks like you're never buying a car again without a PPI. Right? Originally posted by J Mid The e30 is completely fixed and I am daily driving it. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Wait, so what's the point of this car?

ANSWER 8 (id: 3045_5):
Are you under 18? Did the car dealer get parental permission to sell you the car? If he didn't you can take some legal action. Talk to an attorney. If he did get parental permission you are pretty much screwed. Lol

ANSWER 9 (id: 3045_7):
Originally posted by Balleristic31 Are you under 18? Did the car dealer get parental permission to sell you the car? If he didn't you can take some legal action. Talk to an attorney. If he did get parental permission you are pretty much screwed. Lol He used to be a dealer. It was a private sale. No I am screwed. Already know that. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 10 (id: 3045_8):
Originally posted by ELVA164 Wow, that car smells lemony fresh. Looks like you're never buying a car again without a PPI. Right? Wait, so what's the point of this car? I was going to sell the E30 and daily this. That's why the e30 gods punished me. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 11 (id: 3045_9):
Originally posted by J Mid He used to be a dealer. It was a private sale. No I am screwed. Already know that. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk If you are a minor, and he didn't get permission from your parents, you MAY have a void(able) contract. Again, talk to an attorney.