QUESTION ID: 2928

QUESTION:
Aloha, I just wanted to share with other members on this forum. When you ship small items, it is not crazy expensive to send them to Hawaii. Use a flat rate box from USPS, stuff whatever will fit, weight doesnÂ’t matter and itÂ’s the same price to all 50 states. Very large items I can understand not wanting to ship, they can get damaged and or can be expensive. Flat rate boxes are available in small, two mediums(square and rectangle) and a large. They come with tracking and the item has always arrived very quickly ~4 days. Priority twoday is great from small light items, youÂ’ll save a couple bucks over flat rate. IÂ’ve purchased parts here before, let the seller know flat rate is best and they choose not to. When I finally get my item, itÂ’s taken 10 or more days and looking at the postage stamp, they had paid more than it would have flat rate. I thought it might be helpful to pass on this knowledge or help alleviate any fears. Also USPS has always been cheaper, even if you have an account with UPS or FedEx, depending on the size USPS was always cheapest. P.S. IÂ’ve also bought t-shirts from sellers here and they jack up the shipping price. ItÂ’s the same flat rate price but to some people they for some reason think it takes twice as much to ship to Hawaii.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2928_3):
Living in Hawaii, I love USPS flat rate boxes. There's more sizes available online than they have in the post office. They will ship them to you free too.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2928_4):
I always thought USPS flat rate was common knowledge. The problem with higher cost becomes apparent when shipping anything larger than nick knack sized items. Fedex or UPS Air services are not cheap- neither are really option for HI. I ship dozens of parts a week and it always amazes me how little people think it costs to ship stuff. $25 to ship a bumper? Totally, dude!

ANSWER 3 (id: 2928_5):
Bumpers, seats, wheels, big items are very expensive to ship. Sometimes it’s best to get them internationally where it’s the same price through DHL to all 50 states in the USA. I have had friends bring over recaro seats and 2002 doors on the plane from trips back from the mainland. Only another $50 for oversize.