QUESTION ID: 3111

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, I am currently (slowly) working on my 24v swap, and as the old m20 is finally just about to come out I pulled the entire exhaust. The PO had at some point had an Ansa catback installed. Before I throw it away, is it worth anything to anyone? I mean, its just an old exhaust but I figured I would check before I just tossed it with the rest of the exhaust. If this should go in another section, please feel free to move.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3111_0):
Ansa Does it have a dual tip? Ansa are definitively worth some to someone as long as it's not rusty etc. Pictures would be great. I think you might be able to get a $100 for it off craigs easily. They sell for about $350 new.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3111_3):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird Why not just keep it for your swap? Everyone uses a single 2.5" and honestly doesn't sound near as good as a dual system on a 6 cylinder. I think FF is on the right side of this one. Just keep it OP, and remember, it'll sound even better when the muffler rusts off.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3111_4):
Muffler has some light surface rust, but no chrome tips. It did sounds pretty good on the car ( I honestly only drove it a total of probably 20 miles after I bought the car). The tips are all black. I wasn't sure it was anything at all until I pulled everything a couple days ago. I'm not going to reuse it as I plan on doing a full custom dual exhaust from the headers back on my new swap. When I get home form my business trip I will gra a few pictures, and if anyone local (tampa area) wants it they can have it for a 6 pack...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3111_6):
Originally posted by haaken675 Hey Guys, Excuse me, did you just assume an entire forum's gender? Anyways; What are you trying to get out of a custom system?

ANSWER 5 (id: 3111_7):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy Excuse me, did you just assume an entire forum's gender? OP assumed that the forum isn't just spam bots, triggered!!!!!

ANSWER 6 (id: 3111_8):
Originally posted by AwakenNoMore It's not a bad exhaust to be honest. Everyone shits on it but it's a nice mellow exhaust. My brother has it on his M50NV swapped sedan. I've got it on my 325i and the exhaust sound is nice, unless you want everyone on the sidewalk to turn and look...

ANSWER 7 (id: 3111_9):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars I had an Ansa on my M10. It lasted forever and sounded fine. Im in for a 6 pack..as long as its not Bud Light If yo want it then, it's yours. It was originally welded on by the PO, so it's just the muffler. Ill post pics when I get home Monday....And no, definitely not bud light