QUESTION ID: 3458

QUESTION:
Looking for advice on what to do with my 89 325i. The car was flooded back in October. The car was probably in 18-20 inches of water for about 15 hours or so. It sort of started (engine turned over but died immediately, did this a few times) once the water receded but hasn't started since. I haven't tried push starting it. The interior is shot from all the water, but that's no big loss. I'm curious if this car is worth parting out (suspension mostly, has new Apex Arc 8 17" rims) or do I just call a junk yard to come and get it.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3458_0):
Originally posted by rooster201 Looking for advice on what to do with my 89 325i. The car was flooded back in October. The car was probably in 18-20 inches of water for about 15 hours or so. It sort of started (engine turned over but died immediately, did this a few times) once the water receded but hasn't started since. I haven't tried push starting it. The interior is shot from all the water, but that's no big loss. I'm curious if this car is worth parting out (suspension mostly, has new Apex Arc 8 17" rims) or do I just call a junk yard to come and get it. You could likely make it run again but would need to drain all fluids because water is likely inside everything. Part out would also be an option assuming the car has parts that are in decent shape. It kinda just depends on your skill level weather it will be worth it to get it going again but I wouldn't call the scrap man just yet. You would get way more money parting it than selling it for scrap value

ANSWER 2 (id: 3458_1):
Fresh water or salt water? Did the water get to the level where it got the instrument cluster, the glove box (ECU) and engine relays? If it was fresh water and lower water levels, as SmokeE30 said, replace all fluids at a minimum. The exhaust system is likely full of water as well and may need to be removed and drained. The car can probably be saved. If it was salt water, all bets are off. The resulting corrosion in the wiring connectors and electrical components would be a nightmare. Good Luck!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3458_2):
if it was dipped in salt water, its toast. part it out for sure. unfortunately, you did not provide enough information to base a good opinion. as stated, if water got into the dme or the dash cluster, you will probably need to replace them. since you say only 18-20 inches, i would assume no??? did water get inside the engine? drain the oil and see. i would think you should be able to remove the electrical connections, clean and dry them, put them back and the car would probably run.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3458_3):
No salt water. I live on a fresh water pond. The water most likely reached the instrument cluster. I did drain the oil, transmission, and differential.....lots of water in all 3. I appreciate all the advice.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3458_4):
that is a hell of a lot higher than 18". if it got to the cluster, it got to the dme as they are about the same level. get the interior and carpet out. trunk carpet too. if you want to fix this car, you are going to have a lot of work ahead of you. the dme and cluster will need replacement. every plug on the car that was submerged will need to be taken apart, cleaned, dried and sprayed with some kind of cleaner/anti corrosion inhibiter. take out the plugs and turn the engine over by hand to make sure there is no water in the cylinders. shoot a liberal coating of oil in the cylinders and turn it over some more.