QUESTION ID: 3551

QUESTION:
Hey r3v and first and foremost thanks to anyone who has ever helped me or made me laugh on here. Anyways I was driving my car after finally getting it to run right. Something with the fuel injection harness I rigged up was making the car feel sluggish or something. I thought it was the dif, but I had to recrimp one wire and then I got in it and immediately it felt better. I can't explain why that made it work but it did! So I'm driving and driving, sooo fun. Torque, m20 sounds.. sunny ass beautiful day out. I'm at a red light, and this kid is like yo! Your car is on fire! It then made this popping sound. I hop out super quick and there is a puddle of burning shit not too bad. "Shit!" I was on a small hill near an open parking lot, so I throw it in neutral and push it in the opposite lane to the parking lot. Get it there and its still burning, worse and worse. Fire extinguisher was in the mini cooper too so that sucked. Anyways the hood was melting, and it was smoking everywhere with flames coming out of the hood. It was to the point where no one should be near it. Then I watched as the last ~8 months (from the time I got it) until now working the melted itself away. I called dispatch because I have their number from work and shortly after the fire deparment came and put it out. No pics of engine bay but it's toast. Shocks melted through the shock mounts and everything is black and destroyed. The whole front end is melted. I watched as the headlights dissapeared. Well that's my journey with this car, and maybe the e30s for a while. I am probably going to get a subaru or something that's a daily because my parents want to sell the mini and they want me to stop leeching off them lol. I'm 19 btw so I'm not a bum! In these videos it sounds like I don't even care but I was adrenaline rushing and it hadn't really set in yet. The overwhelming and crushing sadness set in shortly after. I've always known there is a certain risk with working on any car so although it sucks, life goes on. Time for the next one! (A reliable daily) haha https://vimeo.com/163624025https://vimeo.com/163624074 I will see the car probably tomorrow and take some more pics. Idk why it happened, but that's that.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3551_10):
First day driving hard... Originally posted by george graves First - sorry for your loss. That sucks. But......Do you have any before pics of this wiring job you "rigged up"? I've got to see that. I might. All I did was delete the c191 and used snap connectors- that's why my car wouldn't start after the swap. I def have a pic in my build thread, it was one side of it. I lengthened the wires and added snap connectors. Today I re taped everything and it was sealed Let's say that was the cause- how could that have ignited something? It sounded like a hose or a gasket went and something set it on fire.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3551_11):
I lost my first car to a fire. It's a dramatic way to go but always leaves you wondering how it happened. Anyway sorry for your loss. Your car was cool too! And you'd just put those wheels on it! But you can make some money selling parts off it. If the interior doesn't smell like burnt rubber your seats and panels would be worth something too. Also.. I want your rear bumper! I can come up and help you go through the car. I have some time tomorrow

ANSWER 3 (id: 3551_12):
Time to revisit installing an extinguisher in mine, I have a really nice Amerex 2.5lb with an auto/marine bracket from my last car just sitting here. Could never come up with a good place to mount it.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3551_5):
Part out is gonna be minimal parts sold locally I imagine. I wouldn't be surprised if the head was fine but I'm probably not gonna pull much besides the wheels, rear bumper, car phone, seats maybe, tail lights, ground control sleeves if they are still good. The rears are fine maybe not the fronts. besides that it's screwed. The shell is probably okay but I don't have the spot for a shell or a trailer or anything so sadly it might be scrapped.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3551_8):
Originally posted by E30 Wagen If it's a 731 head you have to save it. It had a 731 head on it and I swapped in a 885!! I didn't know the 731 was valuable until like 2 days ago lol