QUESTION ID: 2559

QUESTION:
Many of you knew him as '92 mtechnic cabrio', sadly he passed away. He was a great guy and James Crivellone, John Anderson(kruzen), Ben Martin(BENDASHDASH), Derek Wescott (Darkwing6) and Colby Moore(cheezwiz) and I Knew him from staying at his place during our west coast R3V trip in 2006! He was an insanily nice guy and will be missed greatly in the community and in all the lives he touched. His Cabrio was slammed before all you douche hipsters thought it was cool: He was an amazing Graphics artist, here is a Formula D car he worked on and helped to design: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=108636 His lexus: This is a Zero tolerance thread, if you try and troll in here in any way your ass is banned no question. Anyone have any fond memories please share them here. RIP man! Thanks again for helping make E30 oil pans skyrocket in value by ruining so many of them! Thanks for letting Kruzen and I drink a gallon of carlo rossi each at your house and pass out blacked out in the two downstairs bathrooms! Thanks for the decals and stickers! Thanks for everything... :-(

ANSWER 1 (id: 2559_1):
On whatever plane of existence you may have moved to, Jon, may it be a peaceful one. "Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them do not. Miss them do not."

ANSWER 2 (id: 2559_11):
RIP Jon.. he was a down to earth type of dude! much respect and condolences to him and his family. I have his old e30 right now, and feel blessed that this car was raised in tire smoke, and still lives in tire smoke.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2559_4):
I first met him at an old Huntington Beach meet when he was just a kid figuring out what to do to his vert which happened to be an M tech 2. It was clean and completely stock back then. The last time I saw him and his car was at SBI on the rack getting a new oil pan, dumped on Type A's, dirty as shit, missing the front spoiler, stickers all over it, etc. I couldn't believe he was drifting an E30 vert of all cars. Last time I spoke with him, I thought the picture of his Lexus LS was photoshopped. He assured me it wasn't...he really was running that much negative camber. This was right before his LS caught on fire. He was a good guy who liked to have fun with his cars, that's for sure. I don't know how he passed but he was way too nice and too young to leave so soon.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2559_7):
First time I ever met Jon, was at the '08 Bimmerfest in SB. He was crowded by a bunch of people, who like myself, couldn't get enough of his stories, on how he was on his 9th oil pan and counting....lol, very nice guy to say the least. My condolences to his family, and may he rest in peace.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2559_9):
RIP to one of my original E30 brothers. Jon was the OG of low on here. I've know him for 10 years. If there was a car meet you could count on Jon being there. If it was raining in Socal I would always expect a phone call for a street drift session. It's really hard to see a friend pass. I'll never forget when use to pull up to a meet, run to his trunk and pull out a oil catch pan to throw under his car. Then, when he would leave, he would refill the motor with the oil that dripped out during the meet. Jon, without you I would never have been pushed to drive so hard. The hand brake initiations and clutch kicks are tool you have taught me and will stay with me forever. I'll miss you buddy...