QUESTION ID: 1358

QUESTION:
What would you say is fair market value for the following:1988 325i convertible automatic 97k miles 3 documented owners, full history known Extremely well maintained (by me). Recent timing belt, full Bilstein TC suspension, bushings, etc, a/c conversion. Good tan leather interior (with some flaws) Good paint (but it's Bronzit) New Vredstein tires on stock bottle caps Original glass everywhere New brown top ($1500) No dash cracks Working dash and trip computer Driven once a month to cars & coffee and once to Bimmerfest in LA. Like 3k miles in the last 5 years. Needs:front subframe replaced guibo/driveshaft PS is leaking (hose most likely) engine oil leak (pan gasket most likely) I'm only considering selling it because I was dumb enough to buy an Alfa Romeo that needs my attention... If it were't for the subframe issue I would have driven it to E30picnic. Is it an $8k car? $5k car? It's really hard to read the market. From what I'm seeing, if it was blue or black and a stick, it would probably fetch $10k or more on BaT. The big selling points (for me) are that it's a clean unmolested example. Yes, I'll add pictures when I can and no this is not an ad, it's just a discussion.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1358_1):
Ah yes, forgot to mention automatic (another negative for most people, but its quite nice to cruise in). It's also got an upgraded ECU, one of the few non-stock changes. The tab on one side of the subframe broke, I'm in the process of getting it fixed along with the other stuff.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1358_10):
Thanks escaport. I thought the same when I bought it, but the Bronzit has really grown on me, and the automatic is really nice for the traffic we have around here. I will likely list it on BaT, still debating if reserve vs no reserve is the best strategy.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1358_2):
I'd much rather buy an unmolested "survivor" with an auto trans and do a swap over a 5spd that has probably had the crap revved out of it....but that's just me

ANSWER 4 (id: 1358_3):
By popular request: My E30 You'll see some old photos - the car literally has not changed in appearance 4 years later other than the top. I'm genuinely interested in pricing feedback like "it's a $5k car, sell it as is" or "it's worth 10k if everything is perfect, discount it $1000 for the work or have it done" or something like that. I know I will regret selling this but my childhood best friend has a diesel E30 wagon in Portugal I'm thinking about importing :)

ANSWER 5 (id: 1358_4):
As with most things, the "problems" can often be minor when you get in there. I described a broken subframe - it's not the whole subframe, it's just the mounting tab where the swayer bushings clamp in. One side tab is broken and the clamp fell off (bushing and swayer just hanging out). This thread describes a DIY fix: https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/sho...d.php?t=205071 I know the right thing to do is replace the subframe, I think. Any opinions? Next my power steering leak - I think it's just the hoses. The larger return hose moves loosely at the rack though it's clamped, and I saw some evidence of leaking on the other hose that goes to the pump. Oil leak is definitely a big one, it leaks when the nose is higher than the tail. So since I have to drop the subframe to replace the pan gasket, I guess that's my answer.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1358_5):
God I love working on the E30. Everything is logical, there's plenty of room. Subframe is out. Steering rack is out. I'm going to replace the control arms for good measure since they are out, tierod ends and swaybar links and bushings. I've got the steering rack out and still can't figure out if it's leaking hoses or the rack. If it's the rack, I imagine I'll see wet seals once I get the boots off right? I'm also considering a shorter turn radius rack since I've gone this far - E36 conversion I think? Next, oil pan gasket and order a reinforced subframe...

ANSWER 7 (id: 1358_6):
Originally posted by danix If it's the rack, I imagine I'll see wet seals once I get the boots off right? I'm also considering a shorter turn radius rack since I've gone this far - E36 conversion I think?... Yes and yes. Rackdoctor.net and he provides inner tie rods with the rack

ANSWER 8 (id: 1358_7):
OK, revisiting this discussion. I'm inclined to put the car on BaT but I'm still trying to gauge what the market is. The car now has: - replaced subframe with good used, professionally welded Garagistic reinforment kit - oil pan gasket replaced - power steering rack is fine, hoses and bottle replaced - new control arms and tie rods, swaybar links and brackets - reupholstered rear seat (upper and lower) and new roundels A/C needs to be recharged but has been converted to R134a. Still has under 98k miles. It's almost a perfect car in that every trim piece is there and correct. Just had it smogged again (in preparation for sale, it last passed in December with flying colors). So back to my original question - is it a 10k car? 8k? I see people asking $5k for cars with over 200k that don't have anywhere near as much maintenance/repairs done. I would appreciate your feedback.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1358_9):
I've seen similar go in the last two years between $8k and $12.5 depending on year, milage, color, etc... Good things: Milage is pretty decent. Usually, between 90k-120k there's a bunch of maintenance that comes due, but it appears you've taken care of almost all of it. Net positive. Positive mods like the subframe reinforcements and such. The obvious care you have taken with it. Basically turnkey. Downsides if I were looking at it (subjective): Bronzit Automatic Earlier appearance front (I like the facelifted ones in 1990-1993, could be just me) If it were mine and fully done like that, I'd put a reserve of $9k on it and put it on BaT. I think you could get a bit more than $10K.