QUESTION ID: 1667

QUESTION:
I just wanted to let everyone know when they replace their fuel line to NOT buy it through FCP euro. I am a happy customer of theirs generally speaking, however fuel hose I installed this year has already begun cracking. I purchased lengths of fuel hose for the injector feed, return line, and for the evap line by those 2 others, and for some of the fuel tank/pump junctions. All of those have hardened really quickly and look like old hose already. Buy a reputable brand elsewhere, I don't know if this stuff has been sitting too long or what. I can rule out clamp over tightening as I eased the clamp tightness conservatively. It's just not worth the risk IMO.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1667_0):
Is it CRP brand? The CRP stuff is horrible quality, we've had to redo so many systems that have had CRP hoses installed in less than a years time. We have been using the OEM hoses from BMW, they're expensive ($18/ft) but they seem to hold up very well. The green strip adds a nice OEM look to the car as well. PN 16121180409

ANSWER 2 (id: 1667_1):
it's literally anything with a supply line or material coming from china now. there is zero qc. once trusted brands keep hitting the garbage now and there is only ever one common denominator between them.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1667_11):
Originally posted by James Crivellone Been using Evil Energy or OEM line whenever possible. Have had no issues with either. Curious on what lines/parts you're running from Evil? I've yanked out my entire fuel system and was looking for options on reinstall.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1667_2):
Gates Barricade is usually US or Mexican made, if you can find it. If you can find that post or thread, I once broke down the nomenclature printed on OE fuel line so people can understand the specs.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1667_3):
Funny, I just posted pics on FB of my 4 year old CRP fuel line, dry rotted and cracked. Went to start the car one morning and it was pissing fuel. Thank god, it didn't happen while driving. I replaced with Gates 5/16" Barricade MPI fuel hose. It runs thicker than the stock line, which is a good thing for the supply and return but not so good for any small bent lines.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1667_4):
I didn't shell out for BMW hose because I assumed anything FCP sells should be good enough (wrong). For other cars I have bought name brand hose from stores and haven't had issues. However its been some time since I was doing fuel hoses. I probably will stick to name brand stuff sold at auto stores now.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1667_5):
Originally posted by roguetoaster Gates Barricade is usually US or Mexican made, if you can find it. i still like a lot of gates. i use the blue belts. looks like i did get a bad gates branded waterpump in a kit. but the belts etc are still ok. i've had good luck on beck-arnley stuff but am now thinking it has to be watched closer as well. i've direct ordered seals / bearings etc by spec before from good mfgrs/suppliers, and even got a clutch disc and plate for a 60's mazda that way but those days are near gone. wouldn't matter what the part was installed on.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1667_6):
Interesting. The new (Genuine) reservoir to clutch master cylinder hose I got from FCP and put in my E34 when I manual swapped it in 2021 started leaking and created a hell of a mess, I thought it was just leaking at the reservoir nipple but there was nothing wrong with the hose ends when I pulled it, it seemed like the hose had softened and was leaking through the body of the hose somewhere and wicking down the braid. I think all of my fuel hose is gates, I bought a roll of it years ago. That hose is a royal pain to replace in an E34, there is very little clearance.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1667_7):
Hearing all the bad experiences with CRP I've tried to stay away from their products. I installed some Cohline from FCP recently hearing it was better. I guess time will tell. AutohausAZ sells a bunch of Continental fuel hose that I've not had any problems with - some braided in different sizes too.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1667_8):
it is fairly irrelevant just considering the brand without the spec the hose is to and whether it actually meets it. That's why i always bite the bullet and buy the genuine stuff 13537563456 or 16121180409. You might be able to find the exact hose from conti or someone but then again it may not be exactly the same

ANSWER 11 (id: 1667_9):
Originally posted by E30SPDFRK Is it CRP brand? The CRP stuff is horrible quality, we've had to redo so many systems that have had CRP hoses installed in less than a years time. We have been using the OEM hoses from BMW, they're expensive ($18/ft) but they seem to hold up very well. The green strip adds a nice OEM look to the car as well. PN 16121180409 Same story here as well.