QUESTION ID: 1480

QUESTION:
I keep waiting for someone to offer an option for a rebuilt or aftermarket viscous coupling for our cars.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1480_3):
you could just swap in any E30 LSD - 4.10s are quite common, or of you have a 3.91, just swap the ring and pinion. I'm sure lots of people have done that in the past. I assume BMW used the VC for a reason though. the mechanical LSDs don't typically do so well if one wheel has absolutely no traction.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1480_4):
Depends on snow or not. One would want VC for snow for sure. Maybe the Vanagon/Synchro folks would have some insight on who could professionally remanufacture these or build new. I'm thinking the iX is so rare, there is not enough demand for anyone to take it on. Has anyone compared WV/Benz/??? VC units for physical size, splines or anything. Surely there is something out there to be used. In my opinion, the dual VCs pretty much define the iX platform - full analog with great weight distribution. All other well known iX issues are manageable, but its hard to get motivated on a car that will not function as sold if the critical VC units cannot be serviced. I wonder how many are driving around with dual open "diffs" (transfer case VC and rear diff. VC) and do not even know it?

ANSWER 3 (id: 1480_6):
Originally posted by packratbimmer It would be cool if someone took on both transfer case and differential viscous couplings. That facebook profile link what i was share, he was advertise in one ix facebook group that he can rebuilt them. Not sure are him making now days, but every now and then it becomes apparent that he does Originally posted by packratbimmer I wonder how many are driving around with dual open "diffs" (transfer case VC and rear diff. VC) and do not even know it? I don´t rest ix owner´s, but i can feel those are working, ok never driven ix where those are bad, but in winter i can feel those working...

ANSWER 4 (id: 1480_7):
I'm unsure how I missed this post but yes I am rebuilding center viscous couplers (I'm the guy in the Facebook link lol). I haven't been advertising much because I've been busy trying to finish out some other projects and I didn't want to have long delays when rebuilding couplers. I do plan to look into doing rear ones too but I've got a few other projects in front of that. For example, Juuso added making Finnish Fix 325iX driveshaft replacements to my to-do list this week haha. -Devon