QUESTION ID: 1562

QUESTION:
Trying to figure out what the original floor mats were on the iX. Mine came with a pretty bobo looking set of black ones with red "325iX" lettering. I've also seen other iX-branded mats floating around the web on other iX's for sale. Just out of curiosity want to know if our cars come from the factory with super special branded floor mats or were they the same as the regular old E30's?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1562_0):
They didn't say ix - just "BMW". They're the same as the other E30 mats, except they have the cutout for the transfercase bump in the transmission tunnel. neither of those look like stock BMW mats to me. BTW, I know people use newer BMW mats in the E30 (like from the 1 series), but the quality is horrible. I wish mine were still in good shape, but the foam on the back disintegrated after 25 years, otherwise they were still in good shape.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1562_1):
Regular E30 floor mats fit just fine. the floor mat will just be pushed up against the IX transfercase bump.. I was able to find these tan floormats in Germany!

ANSWER 3 (id: 1562_2):
Originally posted by nando They didn't say ix - just "BMW". They're the same as the other E30 mats, except they have the cutout for the transfercase bump in the transmission tunnel. neither of those look like stock BMW mats to me. BTW, I know people use newer BMW mats in the E30 (like from the 1 series), but the quality is horrible. I wish mine were still in good shape, but the foam on the back disintegrated after 25 years, otherwise they were still in good shape. Nice, good to know. Cool that they had a different cut than the regular e30s though, imagine fresh versions of those are extreme unobtanium. What do folks think of the euro mats you can still get some places re: quality? https://www.ecstuning.com/b-genuine-...3/51471911407/

ANSWER 4 (id: 1562_4):
Originally posted by D.Martijn Regular E30 floor mats fit just fine. the floor mat will just be pushed up against the IX transfercase bump.. I was able to find these tan floormats in Germany! Dang! Still in the packaging. Dig the little bauhaus design on there.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1562_5):
Originally posted by nando I thought I read they are made like the new BMW mats - paper thin and cheap. Maybe worthwhile if yours are totally shot? Yeah they’re pretty rough. I’ll try a pressure wash first and then look elsewhere if it doesn’t do the trick. All things considered if the new euro mats and e82 mats are same build quality, I might go with e82. They seem cheaper plus the rear mats on the euros have that weird L cut.