QUESTION ID: 3241

QUESTION:
Found this great article explaining the purpose to having yellow or "Frenched" headlights. You see a lot of E30 guys running them and I thought it was because they are hipster, but it turns out they have an interesting origin. There is also a cool retro Top Gear link explaining it. Just thought I would share, something for you to bring up at your next cars and coffee ;D Yellow headlights, what is the purpose? http://bimmertips.com/origin-frenched-headlights/ Commonly, European cars from the 1930's through the 1990's feature yellow tinted headlights. It is even more common to see cars of all generations, even

ANSWER 1 (id: 3241_1):
Those are French headlights, "frenched" headlights are something else, where you sink the headlights into the fenders like on a car from the late-'40s through '50s. Great info though regarding the yellow French lenses.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3241_10):
Originally posted by JasonC Also antennas And I imagine most here have seen a frenched license plate, even if they didn't know what it is called: A more tasteful, traditional example in case you need some eye bleach after that:

ANSWER 3 (id: 3241_11):
I run frenchies, I bought them at first simply because I love the look, no other reason. I have authentic yellow lows/highs. Turns out, the yellow light is better in the fog, as mentioned before. Also, have you ever noticed with regular lights when its night, and wet, the lights seem to do NOTHING! The way it glares makes it almost useless, but the yellow lights don't do that. Way better vision on wet concrete at night. .....and they look cooler, so. ;)

ANSWER 4 (id: 3241_12):
I have yellow high beams on mine; reminiscent of when we used to drive the e30 from England to France back in the early-mid 80's. I remember helping my dad paint the headlights yellow and adding a black strip to block part of the light pattern the night before every trip across the channel. Only picture I could find on the web, not our vehicle.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3241_2):
Originally posted by Vincent Brick Those are French headlights, "frenched" headlights are something else, where you sink the headlights into the fenders like on a car from the late-'40s through '50s. Great info though regarding the yellow French lenses. Oh cool, I never knew that! Thanks for the history. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 3241_4):
Originally posted by Vincent Brick Those are French headlights, "frenched" headlights are something else, where you sink the headlights into the fenders like on a car from the late-'40s through '50s. Well I learned something new today

ANSWER 7 (id: 3241_5):
Originally posted by Vincent Brick Those are French headlights, "frenched" headlights are something else, where you sink the headlights into the fenders like on a car from the late-'40s through '50s. QFT you can also do this with taillights