QUESTION ID: 642

QUESTION:
We have a pretty nice 325iS in the shop right now, looks like a factory custom darkish red sport interior, Ive never seen an e30 with a custom made for plaque anywhere on the car save for models made by tuning companies, which this isnt. Is this a specific dealer special, or something similar to a "pre individual" individual? Name not removed from plaque because it isnt the customers name, martha might have been the first owner but who knows how many people have owned this car. ​ Attached Files

ANSWER 1 (id: 642_1):
Originally posted by 82eye it was probably a dealership marketing gimmick. Thats what I figured, its very official looking but ive never seen it on any other car. Cool to see different dealer options every now and then though

ANSWER 2 (id: 642_2):
Never seen a BMW plaque with an individual's name on it, unless it was a famous BMW racecar driver. It could be dealer installed. Those guys got creative back in the day to make sales. When E36's were new, someone I knew told the dealership he wanted the 325iS but would only buy if they put the chrome M contour wheels that were on an M3 next to it, on the 325. They initially said no, but he ended up getting what he wanted. A $20 plaque would be much cheaper than a set of wheels/tires. Or it could be sales associate who won the car or something. It would be cool to find out the backstory behind it.

ANSWER 3 (id: 642_3):
my local dealership still does crap like this. they'll give away little roundel desk plaques and gift wrap cars for showroom delivery etc.. edit: ashtray plaques would be when the car was ordered new through the dealer from factory. you could get them made at trophy shops.

ANSWER 4 (id: 642_4):
Originally posted by 82eye my local dealership still does crap like this. they'll give away little roundel desk plaques and gift wrap cars for showroom delivery etc.. edit: ashtray plaques would be when the car was ordered new through the dealer from factory. you could get them made at trophy shops. I figured it would have to had been made by an Employee/Dealership, because shops probably wouldnt want to use the BMW logo w/o permission and risk any legal action. The bmw dealer near me wraps cars up in big bows all the time for buyers, its cool to see people still going the extra mile even if its autonation

ANSWER 5 (id: 642_5):
Originally posted by Gaarath378 I figured it would have to had been made by an Employee/Dealership, because shops probably wouldnt want to use the BMW logo w/o permission and risk any legal action. The bmw dealer near me wraps cars up in big bows all the time for buyers, its cool to see people still going the extra mile even if its autonation the plaques usually came from bmw, the names were engraved local. can also get a plaque from the trophy shop here with any auto logo you want, they'll etch a blank plate no issue. edit; pretty sure mercedes did it as well.