QUESTION ID: 2326

QUESTION:
I freaking love it. Not a Tesla-inclined nor battery-inclined guy, but driving this thing would be like driving something out of a Syd Mead poster. Such a cool re-think on the truck concept, definitely not boring (which is more than can be said about today's circle-jerk automotive styling). https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gEwtrXGOW_o Edit: oops, meant for this to go into Off Topic

ANSWER 1 (id: 2326_0):
So he basically built an armored truck for the public.... minus the glass lol. I saw Mike Burroughs post it on IG, and he is apparently Tesla-inclined and battery-inclined, and he thought it was ridiculous. It certainly looks ridiculous, and the fact that it made an F150 look small in the tug of war video is just silly. If it actually delivers on all the features and performance specs, it's pretty impressive. I've heard mixed things on Tesla build quality though. Definitely something outside the box though. The retractable bed cover, and included ramp is pretty impressive. Also kinda looked like the tailgate was pretty heavy though.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2326_10):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars My son already put his deposit down. I've failed as a parent Originally posted by MrBurgundy The future is not now.. People are eating laundry detergent and cant even figure out if they're a boy or girl. Don't be so glum, chums. If anything this ugly thing will give you a good laugh as it rolls by tugging an F150 along with it. In all seriousness, as ugly as this thing is (particularly from the front), the specs and options they're advertising are impressive. While the styling is, well, interesting, it looks pretty capable for whatever offroading you'd want to do in terms of ground clearance and I'm sure the shape leads to some kind of cost savings. There's not a curved panel on it, and with a projected $40K base the flat panels would make production and any body repairs extremely simple. They do need to fix that bullshit glass though, that was comical watching some computer geek who's never thrown a ball in his life obliterate that "Armor glass." Side note- Elon Musk seems like the most chill dude on the planet, he totally rolled with it when the glass shattered. Would love to have a beer with that guy.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2326_11):
Originally posted by Albie325 Don't be so glum, chums. If anything this ugly thing will give you a good laugh as it rolls by tugging an F150 along with it. In all seriousness, as ugly as this thing is (particularly from the front), the specs and options they're advertising are impressive. While the styling is, well, interesting, it looks pretty capable for whatever offroading you'd want to do in terms of ground clearance and I'm sure the shape leads to some kind of cost savings. There's not a curved panel on it, and with a projected $40K base the flat panels would make production and any body repairs extremely simple. They do need to fix that bullshit glass though, that was comical watching some computer geek who's never thrown a ball in his life obliterate that "Armor glass." Side note- Elon Musk seems like the most chill dude on the planet, he totally rolled with it when the glass shattered. Would love to have a beer with that guy. I doubt you're going to buy a tesla truck to tow anything, in all seriousness. It has an epa range rated at 250 miles for the base model. Who knows what kind of range you're going to get when towing anything with a considerable weight. I'm not gonna lie, I hate EVs, so I hated this truck before it was even announced lol Even it if outperforms any gas or diesel truck, I would never opt for a EV truck. GET OFF MY LAWN

ANSWER 4 (id: 2326_13):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy GET OFF MY LAWN I doubt I'll be buying a Tesla period, let alone to tow anyting but as much as I hate them, EV's are coming whether we like it or not. Until then we can definitely agree to have our fun at their expense.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2326_2):
I thought it was definitely a concept-car only, but maybe not! Even though I'm not totally up with the sharp-lined / edge design, I am all for pushing boundaries. They need to be pushed harder in vehicle design. But is it Delorean 2.0? The specs are completely unbelievable for the base price, if true. Separately, the Rivian looks like a pretty awesome adventure truck.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2326_3):
He has to be trolling his diehard fanboys. That thing is retarded. Idk what metric you could follow to quantify a good looking car, but whatever it may be, this truck does not fall on that spectrum.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2326_5):
This thing is gonna oust the Pontiac Aztec from it's #1 slot of ugliest vehicles. It looks like a literal child designed it. Might have something to do with the materials used since it apparently doesn't use regular steel.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2326_6):
Just like every rendering I've seen up until this point, it looks an ugly POS that looks like it was designed by people who have no interest in owning a truck and no understanding of the purpose of one. The renders were Chevy Avalanche meets every terrible modern design trend, this is PS1 graphics Delorean meets Tonka meets Chevy Avalanche.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2326_8):
I loved everything about it! I hope Elon starts designing futuristic clothing soon, the future is now and we should dress accordingly! I knew I had seen it somewhere before - 1990 Total Recall. RQ Riley Town car - https://rqriley.com/product/urba-tow...lectric-plans/

ANSWER 10 (id: 2326_9):
Originally posted by Mike36 I loved everything about it! I hope Elon starts designing futuristic clothing soon, the future is now and we should dress accordingly! The future is not now.. People are eating laundry detergent and cant even figure out if they're a boy or girl.