QUESTION ID: 3240

QUESTION:
Hey folks! If I haven't browbeaten you with it by now (somehow), I spend my time working on and racing vintage race cars. One of my good friends and a fellow shop owned is named Tivvy Shenton, and he is a bona fide racing legend. He apprenticed at Rolls Royce, worked for Alan Mann Racing and Broadspeed, and formed his own race team before leaving the U.K. and coming to the U.S. in '78. BMW fans will be interested to know he helped build and develop the first-ever 3.0CSL. He's been involved in a huge number of historic projects, but I digress. I'll start with some photos: He's recently finished a thorough, 100% period-correct restoration of a 1969 Alan Mann Racing Mk1 Escort. The amazing thing about this car (beside the fact that it's a genuine example of one of Britain's most iconic race cars) is he helped build it when it was new. He's one of 3 people in the world who knows all the details that went into building the car at Alan Mann and is just about the only one who could reproduce all the bespoke parts featured on the car. Background aside, he's much better at working on cars than marketing them, and the car is for sale. He's been a great friend and influence for me as I've grown up and I'd love to be able to help him market and sell the car. If anyone has ideas for places to feature the car, I'd love to hear about them. I'm going to look into Bring a Trailer and a few other racing websites I'm familiar with, but that's about all I know of off the top of my head. Asking price is $420,000. Thanks in advance, I appreciate it. -Mike

ANSWER 1 (id: 3240_0):
I saw an escort like this at a vintage race in sonoma, and it changed my life and attitude towards these cars. This one is beautiful, will he take a swapped E30 as a trade? :razz:

ANSWER 2 (id: 3240_2):
Originally posted by 2mAn I saw an escort like this at a vintage race in sonoma, and it changed my life and attitude towards these cars. This one is beautiful, will he take a swapped E30 as a trade? :razz: Sure would, send contact info! :P Originally posted by M-technik-3 Send it back to UK to Goodwood and sell it there. This is on the table. I think I may suggest Pebble Beach/Amelia/Monterey as well. He'd love the car to go back across the pond and leave forever though.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3240_3):
It's AMR #8, built in 1969 and shipped to the U.S. for participation in Trans Am. It was outlawed due to its dry sump oil system and suspension modifications (all results of another Alan Mann car, which won the BTCC the previous season). The car was then run in SCCA and won B Sedan. It was shipped to the Caribbean and raced until the early 1990s when it was bought by a vintage racer. This racer seriously crashed his Aston Martin, and Tivvy acquired the car (in heavily modified and worn-out condition since its Alan Mann days) as partial payment for the Aston Martin repairs. Tivvy has owned the car ever since. He has literally hundreds of hours in restoring the car, including things like recreating the unique front subframe with a steering rack installed inside it, the unique rear torsion bar suspension used to allow the installation of huge wheels and tires, and the handmade gas, oil, and catch tanks in the trunk. If there are other details I can share, let me know. The engine bay shot isn't on my phone! I took a picture of a shot from the sales brochure he had made up though. It's a Lotus Twin Cam similar to the Cortina's; 1558cc, 185bhp@6,800rpm, redline above 7,500rpm, 0 hours.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3240_4):
Tivvy made a brochure for the car with a lot of info, pictures, and some really interesting documents. I've scanned it and I'll post the pages here. Enjoy!

ANSWER 5 (id: 3240_6):
Originally posted by noid That car would do best in an auction like rm sotheby's. The feeling I've gotten is an auction like you've said (especially at a big enthusiast event like Goodwood/Amelia Island/Monterey) or the right kind of private party (eclectic racing collector, Alan Mann collector, BTCC collector, etc.). I'll do some research this weekend into contacting these types of places and see what the process is.