QUESTION ID: 3466

QUESTION:
Okay, this is about the lamest reason for a thread like this so I apologize, but Dad has these badges from when he worked in a high-end indy shop in the '80s. First, I don't know why they would be fake but can anyone confirm they're real? Second, are they worth anything? If not I'll just keep them for the cool factor. Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3466_10):
Originally posted by getouth ^That's what you think:D......If ELVA is willing to sell, its already sold ...I have 3 people right now trying to buy a H5 from me. The Hartge badges are sold, actually. The Alpina one is still available though!

ANSWER 2 (id: 3466_2):
Good to know, thanks guys! I'll look more closely tomorrow, but I think the Alpina emblem is just about perfect, the Hartge has a couple little marks (not even dents), and the H//5 has the couple marks you see in the picture. I'm not even sure if you can feel them, but I'll take a look.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3466_3):
I'd say more like: H//5 - $200 Hartge - $150 Alpina-$100 The Alpina one is no longer made if it's the larger one for the steering wheel and not a wheel cap emblem. Therefore the price. I got $75 for one just a few years back and it was used. The Hartge badges where sold recently for around those prices from a member here and afaik he sold all of them after people saying he was nuts for asking those prices. Thrown them on ebay with a high asking price and then just let people offer for them with the "best offer" option. That way after several offers you'll realize what people are really willing to give you for them. Or you can sell them for your asking.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3466_7):
Definitely real! H5 is very sought after I personally would not sell it for less than $250.....just me though and the strip badge in that condition about $150 just my personal opinion......

ANSWER 5 (id: 3466_8):
:) Yes, h5 is hard to find from what I have read. 250.00 is a good starting point, but remember only people with h5 hartge cars are going to buy it....for the most part. Not many of those cars around. :) jm