QUESTION ID: 2522

QUESTION:
Hi everyone I’m in the process of collecting the part for getting my m20 turbo. power goal 250-300whp My plan was initially to buy KAmotor turbo kit but i have read that maybe this route is dead end. Since « the owner of this website is off the grid ». i look about the CXracing kit ( i already have baught few thing from them without any issues). https://www.cxracing.com/TRB-KIT-BMW...%20turbo%20kit this look decent for the price. Can anyone tell me if is a GO or a NO-GO , and why ? also , about the clutch , what is the best bang for the buck about the clutch system ? Injector , is there an oem , BMW or other , option ? I have read that minimum 35lb injector are nedded? for the global process i need your words about what i have in mind: -getting the engine out and mild rebuilt(mainly gasket and seal) -thicker head gasket and planned head -arp headstud -install all the relative turbo parts -tune with MS3 pnp and aem wide band(already in hand) -dyno -getting fun of it ! I know there are plenty of information here and there on the web , i already have read a lot about turboeing M20. but i getting lost sometime and the thread do not always have clear information . thanks !

ANSWER 1 (id: 2522_0):
The info is out there, there are so many builds, copy a successful build to make it easy. 300whp is easy and just about everyone in the turbo M20 world is making more than that so there are plenty of threads to look at. The CXracing kit is iffy to me, there's a thread about it somewhere in forced induction or the M20 board, look into it there. I wouldn't buy it, I don't like the header, but then again I wouldn't buy the KAmotors kit either. I prefer to put the system together from parts. The Rapid Spool Industries header is a good bet. It is not perfect, but I can't knock it because it's the best option in the price range and a nice custom header would easily cost 1.5x+. I don't know anything about bare minimum injector size, I went big enough to make more power than I'd need, just don't buy cheap injectors. There is no easier way to kill a turbo motor to cheap out on the injectors. Injectors are expensive, pistons cost more. I won't even tune someone's car if they have chinabay or crusty used junkyard injectors. I have had a UUC and a Spec clutch, both are good, there are pros and cons to every clutch out there. The ebay clutches might be half the price, but if something goes wrong with it, the time investment in swapping it out and the cost of buying the good one puts you way behind. Originally posted by Iloveboost thicker head gasket and planned head Don't do it. The compression ratio is good as is, any lower will just make it suck more. I am of the opinion that it would actually be better if it were a little higher so we could take advantage of a cam.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2522_1):
Originally posted by Iloveboost Hi everyone I’m in the process of collecting the part for getting my m20 turbo. power goal 250-300whp My plan was initially to buy KAmotor turbo kit but i have read that maybe this route is dead end. Since « the owner of this website is off the grid ». i look about the CXracing kit ( i already have baught few thing from them without any issues). https://www.cxracing.com/TRB-KIT-BMW...%20turbo%20kit this look decent for the price. Can anyone tell me if is a GO or a NO-GO , and why ? also , about the clutch , what is the best bang for the buck about the clutch system ? Injector , is there an oem , BMW or other , option ? I have read that minimum 35lb injector are nedded? for the global process i need your words about what i have in mind: -getting the engine out and mild rebuilt(mainly gasket and seal) -thicker head gasket and planned head -arp headstud -install all the relative turbo parts -tune with MS3 pnp and aem wide band(already in hand) -dyno -getting fun of it ! I know there are plenty of information here and there on the web , i already have read a lot about turboeing M20. but i getting lost sometime and the thread do not always have clear information . thanks ! Go check out my build as I just went through most of this stuff. I achieved 300-320 hp and 300-350 ft lbs on 14-16 lbs of boost. -getting the engine out and mild rebuilt(mainly gasket and seal) - Yes and also do the transmission gaskets. Only thing I had trouble with is the rear main seal, find the springed version. -thicker head gasket and planned head - for the power level you are going for just keep the head mated to the block and dont mess with the HG unless its already blown. The stock HG is good up to 18-20psi -arp headstud - Do this. Find the threads that show you how to do this with the head still on the motor. Will help with the head lifting. for 300's its just an extra safety mechnism if you come into an overboot scenario. -install all the relative turbo parts -tune with MS3 pnp and aem wide band(already in hand) - Yep. I choose Kdata which is like an open sourced MS3. I also used AEM wide band and AEM truboost (this has help A LOT to dial in boost). -dyno - we turned my boost down a tad and are now achieving a really nice curve at 317hp/309ftlbs. -getting fun of it ! I'd check out Classic Daily's kit. You can go through Bluntech to get it. Comes with a basic tune that is damn near spot on. Go big with injectors...don't go middle ground in the choices (allows for expansion to e85). Look at a larger fuel pump too...boost killed my stocker in about 2 pulls lol.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2522_3):
Originally posted by Mastrcruse I'd check out Classic Daily's kit. You can go through Bluntech to get it. Comes with a basic tune that is damn near spot on. Go big with injectors...don't go middle ground in the choices (allows for expansion to e85). Look at a larger fuel pump too...boost killed my stocker in about 2 pulls lol. You mean DIYPSI?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2522_4):
Originally posted by Kershaw You mean DIYPSI? I believe they use DIYPSI's manifold but their kit comes very complete with everything including that, plus tune and some of the best customer service in the business - just my opinion and my experience with this build. Also the kit produced exactly the power goals OP posted.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2522_5):
Originally posted by Mastrcruse I believe they use DIYPSI's manifold but their kit comes very complete with everything including that, plus tune and some of the best customer service in the business - just my opinion and my experience with this build. Also the kit produced exactly the power goals OP posted. Do they still have/sell all that? Their website looks pretty empty.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2522_7):
Thanks you for all the info! there is some very good informations that will help me! i have start to learning about injector, from what people said , 42lb or 450cc injector could do the job for my power goal. but are all injector are the same? (Injector socket/conector are identical??) i’m lost with that. and all what i find is costly , nothing below 300$ . is this the price for Good injector , or there is an other option for good 42lb injector that fit the m20! thanks

ANSWER 7 (id: 2522_8):
No, there are many different types of injectors, even among those with the same connector (minitimer) the lengths, impedance, nozzle type, feed type, vary. Good injectors aren't cheap, mine cost $313 back in 2016, the same injectors cost $358 today.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2522_9):
Originally posted by McGyver Do they still have/sell all that? Their website looks pretty empty. Gotta just give them a shout on email. Whats I got with the kit. Oil return hose 10An weld bung Oil fitting at end of hose air filter cone DEI wrap garret super 60 t3 Turbo exhaust flange Oil fitting feed on turbo 4AN ---gasket for above stud for above nuts for above Oil fitting return off turbo gasket for above stud for above nuts for above intercooler mounting wastegate piping to atmosphere BOV flange weld manifold intercooler downpipe with bung Turbo Oil feed take off from oil PSI sensor oil feed line solicone couplers with T bolt bands complete Intercooler tubing, 2 24" pieces cut to length Turbosmart Hypergate with 7psi spring Turbosmart BOV