QUESTION ID: 3245

QUESTION:
Hello everyone I am a relatively new driver but I've always grown up as a BMW boy. I've had my licence for about a year and have been driving an F10 M5 (DCT) and a new F87 M2 (Manuel). A couple weeks ago one of my fathers BMW friends came over and when I looked outside I saw this beautiful old E30 BMW. I instantly fell in love. I asked him if I could go drive it and he let me! I was so excited. I got into the car and it just felt like a race car. This was an E30 318is it had the M3's shocks on and I absolutely loved driving it I never stopped smiling as I drove it. This car gave me something else then the modern cars could give me it gave me a sense of simplicity and a down to earth driving experience. Before I go off to college in a year I wanted to get my hands on one of these amazing cars to bring it with me and be able to enjoy driving no matter where I go. With all of this said I don't really know where to start and what to look out for when buying one of these cars. I would prefer a 318i or is and I would want it to be realitivly untouched in the modification aspect. I would want a car true to itself. If anyone has some tips and tricks to share I would greatly appreciate that. I can't wait to truly become a member of this amazing community! Thanks

ANSWER 1 (id: 3245_0):
Personal opinion is to skip the 318i and get a 325i or 325is. I couldn't deal with less power than I have and the engine is much simpler to work with. 1989 seems to be the go to year. No airbags but has the facelift plastic bumpers. Mine is a late '91 325i with all of the sport options added including the one year only side skirts. I fell in love with it the second I drove it, and that was back when it was still auto transmission. Try and get a car without rust and has been taken care of, that's very important.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3245_1):
Originally posted by AwakenNoMore Personal opinion is to skip the 318i and get a 325i or 325is. I couldn't deal with less power than I have and the engine is much simpler to work with. 1989 seems to be the go to year. No airbags but has the facelift plastic bumpers. Mine is a late '91 325i with all of the sport options added including the one year only side skirts. I fell in love with it the second I drove it, and that was back when it was still auto transmission. Try and get a car without rust and has been taken care of, that's very important. Are there any specific places rust is common?

ANSWER 3 (id: 3245_8):
OP, the 318 would be a fine choice if you find one. So would a 325i, and so would a 325e. You don't need much power at this point in your driving career and all three engines will still allow you to have fun. I'd personally recommend looking for a car that has some cosmetic issues but is structurally solid. You save money that way and don't have to worry as much about the car getting hurt.