QUESTION ID: 2080

QUESTION:
What makes your E30 unique? Something that you haven't seen before (or is very uncommon) on another E30. Whether it be a modification or a quirk, let's see it! I'll start with a few of mine. -Relocated cruise control unit from the engine bay to under the dash. -Shaved main power cable in the engine bay. -The colour, Audi Ipanema Brown Metallic (IPANEMABRAUN).

ANSWER 1 (id: 2080_0):
Compared to regular 3-Series models of the day, MY E30 featured an eye-catching widebody kit that still looks the part to this day. In addition, it has a new tailgate made from glass-reinforced plastic, among other parts. In fact, just the bonnet, roof, and sunroof were carried over from lesser variants.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2080_11):
Originally posted by OSAH racing The whole car is ridiculously custom. Indeed! Thought I was looking at a full-blown racecar until I got to the interior section Will definitely be checking out the build thread.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2080_12):
Originally posted by OSAH racing Those seats are sweet! what are they? weight? The whole car is ridiculously custom. Recaro pole positions N.G. (FIA) 17 LBS Maybe 1.5 extra lbs for leather and the heated and cooled seat stuff. The side brackets are about 4.5lbs Car 2705. 1/2 tank, Spare, Tools, CDs, ready to roll. Originally posted by Panici Indeed! Thought I was looking at a full-blown racecar until I got to the interior section Will definitely be checking out the build thread. Wanted as Racecar / Track car as I could go for the street with everything made built to endure big rubber and power and ok to drive long trips., "Clubsport feel"

ANSWER 4 (id: 2080_13):
Nothing as impressive as the stuff above, I built this car on a shoestring budget. I use 3 of the most powerful computer fans I could find as condenser fans because it's impossible to put a condenser fan when a 3" thick intercooler is occupying the space it would take up. I've never seen someone else do that, then I saw Papadakis use a PC fan on steroids to cool the alternator on a race car earlier this year. Other than that there's nothing unique about my E30 other than the specific combination of parts it is. Not even the fact that it's running on an ECU I built (there are probably at least 7 cars running around with that). It's a shitbox, but it's my shitbox, and it's pretty fast. The fans in question.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2080_2):
Period Recaros LX-Bs, and the M30, although my favourite is probably Its tow bar and the fact I still use it for towing - the front end loader driver at the garden centre the other day couldn’t believe it when he was filling my trailer up with bark chips. The M30 does make it a good tow wagon though. I’m going to use it to tow my stripped out coupe to get painted in a little while, will make for a funny photo of e30s saving e30s

ANSWER 6 (id: 2080_3):
I've got several. The first being the mystery vacuum line that disappears somewhere into the firewall. Some people on the R3V FB group thought it was for auto climate control, but I don't have that. I don't think any U.S. car did. I've since capped off the second nipple on the intake manifold. I also have what I believe to be dealer installed "subs" made by a/d/l, complete with color matched grill. I did some research and discovered that a/d/l supplied speakers to BMW and Porsche dealers as an upgrade. Finally, I have the Husco armrest which appears to have been installed when the car was new. I guess the original owner went for all of these dealer installed options. I love that the pad was colored match to Natur.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2080_4):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Period Recaros LX-Bs, and the M30, although my favourite is probably Its tow bar and the fact I still use it for towing - the front end loader driver at the garden centre the other day couldn’t believe it when he was filling my trailer up with bark chips. The M30 does make it a good tow wagon though. I’m going to use it to tow my stripped out coupe to get painted in a little while, will make for a funny photo of e30s saving e30s What's the tow rating on an E30 out of curiosity? With an M30 you probably have plenty of torque.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2080_5):
Originally posted by laidback93 I've got several. The first being the mystery vacuum line that disappears somewhere into the firewall. Some people on the R3V FB group thought it was for auto climate control, but I don't have that. I don't think any U.S. car did. I've since capped off the second nipple on the intake manifold. I also have what I believe to be dealer installed "subs" made by a/d/l, complete with color matched grill. I did some research and discovered that a/d/l supplied speakers to BMW and Porsche dealers as an upgrade. Finally, I have the Husco armrest which appears to have been installed when the car was new. I guess the original owner went for all of these dealer installed options. I love that the pad was colored match to Natur. I wonder if your car was ever turboed at some point? Or was the manifold and vacuum cap ever in a turbo car. I believe some people use that for manifold pressure on a boost controller.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2080_6):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop What's the tow rating on an E30 out of curiosity? With an M30 you probably have plenty of torque. Braked 1200kg, unbraked 500kg Towing the half ton trailer, the M30 pulls it easily, like it’s barely there. An e34 535i weights 300kg more than an e30 so it’s unsurprising really.

ANSWER 10 (id: 2080_7):
Originally posted by lukeADE335i Braked 1200kg, unbraked 500kg Towing the half ton trailer, the M30 pulls it easily, like it’s barely there. An e34 535i weights 300kg more than an e30 so it’s unsurprising really. Nice

ANSWER 11 (id: 2080_8):
Originally posted by InsulationTools Compared to regular 3-Series models of the day, MY E30 featured an eye-catching widebody kit that still looks the part to this day. In addition, it has a new tailgate made from glass-reinforced plastic, among other parts. In fact, just the bonnet, roof, and sunroof were carried over from lesser variants. Aren't you just describing an E30 M3? Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop 2 Things: My beauty plate that a Friend and I made for the intake side. And My tattered American Flag hood. Beauty plate is interesting, gives it a more modern feel. You can't see any components in a late model engine bay. Originally posted by lukeADE335i Period Recaros LX-Bs, and the M30, The M30 does make it a good tow wagon though. I saw the LX-Bs in your build thread. Are they a little wider then the stock sport seats? You can definitely tell the sport seats are Recaro inspired. Love the towing as well, E30 putting in work! Originally posted by laidback93 I also have what I believe to be dealer installed "subs" made by a/d/l, complete with color matched grill. I did some research and discovered that a/d/l supplied speakers to BMW and Porsche dealers as an upgrade. I have definitely never seen a dealer option sub package on an E30. Is there a corresponding amplifier tucked in the trunk somewhere?

ANSWER 12 (id: 2080_9):
Things on my car I would consider a lot of time to do over that cant be bought off the self. E46 Fuse box/ 90% Full chassis rewire ​ ​ ​ Trying to make E30 and E36 Suspension optimized Spherical, "Posi lok" adjuster, Twin hear diff, Reinforced, Rear coil over ​ ​ Trying to make E36M spindles work. The problem isn't that the control arm bushing needs more caster setting. ​ But the whole upright needs moved forward to get the wheel centered - Yes MK60 ABS is under there. ​ My US S50 needs valve adjustments so it can R3V to 7800 ​ ​ Properly moving the booster over to run a proper airbox when S54. Carbon box not installed, S54 ITB conversion not done, Still on Ms41 But the future should be nice! : Rebuilt, brass guides, boxed in pedal set, reinforced box to go along with it DTM Killer seat delete, fresh interior Heated and cooled seats 12000 miles of smiles since last lear.