QUESTION ID: 3543

QUESTION:
I love my E30s, and I never buy new cars, but good grief, previous owners are going to drive me bonkers. Today I went to swap the snow tires off my new-to-me iX, and I discovered that some knuckle-dragger who worked on the front hubs last had mushroomed the end of one of the front hubs so my basketweave wouldn't fit over it. :curse: The previous wheels had plastic centering rings that stretched enough to fit, but the only way my basketweave was going on there was by bringing out the angle grinder and grinding down the mushroomed hub. So a simple wheel swap turning into a profanity-laden garage session. The previous owner is hundreds of miles away, but I like to think he heard me.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3543_1):
I did that the first time I swapped front halfshafts on my first ix 6 or 7 years ago. I pounded the strut back on the halfshafts with a hand sledge to the hub. Learned my lesson trying to put my wheels on a few minutes later, haha. Cleaned up the edges with an air grinder and it was good to go.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3543_10):
Originally posted by Mike_z I bought an s50 swapped car. Put a new battery in it, drained in 2 days. Turns out I have a shit ton of drains, basically everything is pretty much on with the car completely off, as long as the battery is connected. Putting money aside to have it professionally rewired, cause I'm scared of touching anything. Among tons of other things start pulling fuses until you find the drain. at least then you can kinda drive it

ANSWER 3 (id: 3543_12):
Originally posted by Poopie my current e30 is currently getting stripped and resprayed because of knucklehead owners. Every time i take something apart i find something very wrong. I'm almost scared to go deeper thats what she said

ANSWER 4 (id: 3543_2):
Originally posted by Kershaw Cleaned up the edges with an air grinder and it was good to go. Yeah, same here. I'm all better now since I got that rant out of my system. I'm sure that I've been that P.O. at times myself.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3543_4):
my current e30 is currently getting stripped and resprayed because of knucklehead owners. Every time i take something apart i find something very wrong. I'm almost scared to go deeper

ANSWER 6 (id: 3543_6):
Po didn't mess anything up or do stupid repairs, he basically did nothing at all for maintenance or repairs. So I have a very long list of things that need to be done. Looks shiny though.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3543_7):
P.O. Didn't give a shit about the car. Just wanted to sell it. He put in a lowered ~$300 suspension off of ebay and then the reverse shift fork broke 2 days after I bought it. Only gave me the brass spare key and then my stupid ass never got a new one. Then one day my dad broke the key off in the ignition. But the PO before him rebuilt the motor, I guess. The head, at least, looks fresh. I still love the thing, though. Had way more PO issues with my Pontiac.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3543_8):
I bought an s50 swapped car. Put a new battery in it, drained in 2 days. Turns out I have a shit ton of drains, basically everything is pretty much on with the car completely off, as long as the battery is connected. Putting money aside to have it professionally rewired, cause I'm scared of touching anything. Among tons of other things

ANSWER 9 (id: 3543_9):
bought mine in 2012 po was fed up with it didnt want it anymore the engine was partially disassembled(m40b16) & he just wanted to get rid of it, no lights were working & had a broken rear spring & broken rear tailights & holes in seat & exhaust a fender was bent electric mirrors non working & various switch/buttons were dead she had 330k kms, got her for 300€, i'm happy with it(all was fixed & was swap'd with a m52b25 then m60b30 next b40). ps; also had rust holes in driver's & passenger's floor, nothing that some welding couldnt fix