QUESTION ID: 648

QUESTION:
Simplified EVAP System I took this post from my build thread (Post 198), as I thought it may be helpful. This is part of a larger fuel system refresh completed on my E30, more details in my build thread. -- I've modified the Expansion tank / EVAP / fuel vapor / fuel overflow system. The common approach is to remove the overflow tank and charcoal canister, and vent any lines to atmosphere. Unfortunately, this leaves you with the smell of raw fuel as the tank vents. This is not acceptable for garage storage in my opinion. Obviously venting the gas tank directly won't do the trick. It's not possible to simply cap off the vents for three reasons: Air needs a route to escape when filling the gas tank to prevent "burping", air needs to enter/exit the tank as the system heats and cools, air needs to enter the tank as fuel is consumed to prevent pulling a vacuum on the tank. - I decided to eliminate the overflow/evap tank above the rear passenger wheel, connect the main tank vent directly to the fuel filler neck, and connect the secondary vent directly to the charcoal canister. - This setup allows the tank to breathe as necessary, without the smell of raw fuel from the vehicle. It also means I only need to run a single hose through the rear wheel well to the filler neck. The main disadvantage of this approach is that the gas tank can no longer be brimmed (filled to the top), as the liquid fuel will travel up the vent to the charcoal canister. In other words, it's no longer possible to fill the tank until the pump clicks off, and you loose a few liters of fuel capacity. The OBC has a hidden function to show a digital display of how much fuel is left, I check this and fill appropriately when at the gas station. -- Update: Last summer, I filled the tank until the pump clicked off, with no apparent negative results. Repeated this test a few times. That said, there is still the possibility that this will allow liquid fuel to be taken in by the charcoal canister, harming it's effectiveness. -- Here are a couple of helpful diagrams. The original venting system (euro model) VS my modified approach: Unfortunately the original metal tube containing the venting hoses was destroyed from rust in my car. This was my solution. If you would like further details of the rust repair you can find them in my build thread. - Freshly painted replacement fuel tank with pump installed (new gaskets) and hoses attached, ready for transplant into the car. - Fuel tank installed Looped vent hose as shown in the diagrams. Gates liquid fuel hose was also used here, which necessitated a larger bend radius (compared to thinner EVAP hose) to avoid pinching. I would recommend EVAP hose be used here for flexibility. Please don't hesitate to ask any questions you may have!

ANSWER 1 (id: 648_0):
I'm in the middle of trying to clean up the rust in the rear wheel arch, and this looks like a much cheaper and easier fix when I put everything back together. My question is, How would liquid fuel be able to get into the charcoal canister in the engine bay? Isn't the charcoal canister mounted at a higher elevation than the top of the fuel tank? I guess I can measure off the floor, and maybe it's different in the m20s vs the m42s. Also, how did you cap the small outlet of the 'Y' pipe? I imagine that can be eliminated altogether if you're just running one line to the filler neck.

ANSWER 2 (id: 648_1):
Originally posted by Panici Simplified EVAP System I took this post from my build thread (Post 198), as I thought it may be helpful. This is part of a larger fuel system refresh completed on my E30, more details in my build thread. -- I've modified the Expansion tank / EVAP / fuel vapor / fuel overflow system. The common approach is to remove the overflow tank and charcoal canister, and vent any lines to atmosphere. Unfortunately, this leaves you with the smell of raw fuel as the tank vents. This is not acceptable for garage storage in my opinion. Obviously venting the gas tank directly won't do the trick. It's not possible to simply cap off the vents for three reasons: Air needs a route to escape when filling the gas tank to prevent "burping", air needs to enter/exit the tank as the system heats and cools, air needs to enter the tank as fuel is consumed to prevent pulling a vacuum on the tank. - I decided to eliminate the overflow/evap tank above the rear passenger wheel, connect the main tank vent directly to the fuel filler neck, and connect the secondary vent directly to the charcoal canister. - This setup allows the tank to breathe as necessary, without the smell of raw fuel from the vehicle. It also means I only need to run a single hose through the rear wheel well to the filler neck. The main disadvantage of this approach is that the gas tank can no longer be brimmed (filled to the top), as the liquid fuel will travel up the vent to the charcoal canister. In other words, it's no longer possible to fill the tank until the pump clicks off, and you loose a few liters of fuel capacity. The OBC has a hidden function to show a digital display of how much fuel is left, I check this and fill appropriately when at the gas station. -- Update: Last summer, I filled the tank until the pump clicked off, with no apparent negative results. Repeated this test a few times. That said, there is still the possibility that this will allow liquid fuel to be taken in by the charcoal canister, harming it's effectiveness. -- Here are a couple of helpful diagrams. The original venting system (euro model) VS my modified approach: Unfortunately the original metal tube containing the venting hoses was destroyed from rust in my car. This was my solution. If you would like further details of the rust repair you can find them in my build thread. - Freshly painted replacement fuel tank with pump installed (new gaskets) and hoses attached, ready for transplant into the car. - Fuel tank installed Looped vent hose as shown in the diagrams. Gates liquid fuel hose was also used here, which necessitated a larger bend radius (compared to thinner EVAP hose) to avoid pinching. I would recommend EVAP hose be used here for flexibility. Please don't hesitate to ask any questions you may have! i opened my evap tank today. And I checked with your diagram. I believe your original diagram is wrong! The routing of hoses for (1) in your original diagram is wrong. The rightmost hose on top of the tank should be connected to the thinner tube routed through the tank. And the one on the left side should be connected to BIG fuel hose neck. I have a problem of vapor pressure build-up each time i open tank cap. Tremendous pressure escapes from the cap. I took out the evap tank to examine and found that the right side hose is blocked. air cannot escape from inside. Is this the reason why pressure builds up inside? Thanks in advance. selespeed

ANSWER 3 (id: 648_3):
Originally posted by selespeed I have a problem of vapor pressure build-up each time i open tank cap. Tremendous pressure escapes from the cap. I took out the evap tank to examine and found that the right side hose is blocked On your car, the hose that is blocked, does it go off to the charcoal canister at the front of the car in the engine bay? If so, then yes, blocking this off would not allow the tank to vent properly.

ANSWER 4 (id: 648_4):
Originally posted by Panici On your car, the hose that is blocked, does it go off to the charcoal canister at the front of the car in the engine bay? If so, then yes, blocking this off would not allow the tank to vent properly. the line to the engine is NOT blocked deliberately. It must be blocked along the long line all the way to the front. it goes to the charcoal canister in the engine bay. So, instead of troubleshooting this line, I decided to do a simple fix by venting it out outside the evap tank using a small motorcycle air filter like this. Costs me one dollar. Neater and better.

ANSWER 5 (id: 648_5):
Originally posted by selespeed So, instead of troubleshooting this line, I decided to do a simple fix by venting it out outside the evap tank using a small motorcycle air filter like this. Costs me one dollar. That will work, but I expect you'll smell raw fuel when the fuel tank gets hot and the gas expands. Not such a big deal if you park outside, but in a garage it's a dealbreaker for me at least.

ANSWER 6 (id: 648_6):
Hey! I've been looking into deleting and simplifying the fuel system and came upon this thread. My question to you is if it is possible to delete the charcoal canister as well. Im aware that deleting this would probably mean the smell of fuel, but what im more concerned of is the pressure building up and it being able to be vented. Would this have any affect on that if I use your method of venting, just without the usage of the charcoal canister. Also, was wondering if you capped off or left the fitting where the expansion tank would connect to the filler neck alone. Thank you!

ANSWER 7 (id: 648_7):
Watching this pretty closely. With the body swap, I had to move the expansion tank inside the vehicle. Hasn't been an issue so far, but I'd love to delete it. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Pro

ANSWER 8 (id: 648_8):
Originally posted by osnap47 Hey! I've been looking into deleting and simplifying the fuel system and came upon this thread. My question to you is if it is possible to delete the charcoal canister as well. Im aware that deleting this would probably mean the smell of fuel, but what im more concerned of is the pressure building up and it being able to be vented. Would this have any affect on that if I use your method of venting, just without the usage of the charcoal canister. Also, was wondering if you capped off or left the fitting where the expansion tank would connect to the filler neck alone. Thank you! If you want to delete the charcoal canister, you can just vent that line (which normally runs to the engine bay) to atmosphere. This is how the euro cars without a charcoal canister are plumbed. ----------- I capped off that connection to the filler neck from the expansion tank. But make sure you leave the vent hose from the gas tank to the filler neck in place, or you'll have a heck of a time filling the tank up with fuel!

ANSWER 9 (id: 648_9):
Originally posted by Panici On your car, the hose that is blocked, does it go off to the charcoal canister at the front of the car in the engine bay? If so, then yes, blocking this off would not allow the tank to vent properly. What I really meant is the line to the charcoal canister is blocked for some reason maybe by dirt or debris I dont want to troubleshoot this. So I decided to use an easy way with a small air filter. Works perfect and no smell of fuel at all even in garage.