QUESTION ID: 3144

QUESTION:
I know this is probably a first on here but, title says it all. I clearly can't afford to by a car on my own right now but my parents would be okay with me getting a rental car and I thought no car would be more sick to take to prom than a vintage E30. I am willing to pay for the car for a day and sign anything insurance related such as a consent. I am not a bad driver I know how to drive shift and have driven long roads for me age. A stock E30 with a manual would truly be ideal but I'm open to anything. I am located in the Chicago land area and would like to ask you guys on here first before I go and look somewhere elsewhere. Thank you so much. Fingers crossed!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3144_0):
No offence, but I sure as hell wouldn't want a high school kid in using my E30 as a rental car for prom night...not only for the risk of my car getting written off / damaged...but more so for the fear of you killing yourself in it. Don't think I could consciously live with myself if a teenager killed himself in my car because I rented it to him.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3144_1):
I took my e30 to prom. Did a big burnout/slide outside the front door on the way out which was cool.... Except my throttle cable stuck open and I had to drive a block down and fix it in my tux with my date/gf.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3144_11):
Originally posted by roguetoaster I know our society has become more accepting of different sexual preferences, but I've never heard of anyone taking a car to prom as a date. I also know that we're not supposed to judge/criticize/make anyone feel feels or anything but this is r3v... Originally posted by efficient How do you guys know his date is a female? Maybe his date is male and he likes e30s. Just saying since that's all e30s attract is other males. This is true.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3144_13):
Originally posted by BavarianObsession Nah I'm a dude man haha. I just know the chick I'm taking would be damn impressed with an E30. You should never make that statement here. There will be a flock of E30 drivers looking for your date now.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3144_3):
Originally posted by BavarianObsession Yeah I totally understand haha. It's just that I really don't want to talk a Toyota Sienna to Prom lol. ...but there is waaaaaay more room in the back of a Sienna than an E30

ANSWER 6 (id: 3144_4):
Originally posted by BavarianObsession I thought no car would be more sick to take to prom than a vintage E30. I know our society has become more accepting of different sexual preferences, but I've never heard of anyone taking a car to prom as a date. I also know that we're not supposed to judge/criticize/make anyone feel feels or anything but this is r3v...

ANSWER 7 (id: 3144_6):
Originally posted by powling no offence, but i sure as hell wouldn't want a high school kid in using my e30 as a rental car for prom night... +1 OP why dont' you rent a car that's to your interest? That's what I did. I rented a late model Volvo sedan (I was a weird kid who liked Volvo since a young age). This was in a hick town where nobody knew what it was. My date liked the comfy seats and the following morning when I was driving home, I drove a buddy home who hated Volvos. After that enthusiastic drive in the wee hours of the morning (no traffic), I made a believer out of him! But I'll still never own a Volvo!

ANSWER 8 (id: 3144_8):
e30 is a cool, but damn not that cool... Spend a few hundred bucks and get something proper cool and fun to impress your date ;) Someone came to our formal (Australia's "prom") in a prime mover (front of a semi trailer), looked like optimus prime haha. That was pretty awesome, and the only "car" I remember. That was also 13yrs ago :|