QUESTION ID: 1340

QUESTION:
This information might be useful to some folks here... Problem: -Water pooling behind the driver seat -Water pooling under the rear seat Culprit: There are holes under the top frame (in between where the frame gets bolted down). I can't understand what the holes are for but they need to be sealed off. It seems that BMW used various methods of dealing with these holes. If they are left uncovered, any water that gets into the area will drain into the car, pooling behind the front seats and under the rear bench. I have seen everything from stickers, caps, and plugs (as shown) used to deal with this. If you are unlucky and have a sticker covering the hole, you're likely going to have leak issues after years of the sticker getting wet. If you have caps or plugs you may be fine... Solution: Remove the top frame (2 bolts on each side). If you're missing plugs, go get some from a hardware store if you can find the right size. If that's not an option, you can get creative and silicone a small piece of hard plastic (someone mentioned margarine lid cut to size). This is also a good time to clean out the drains while the top is off. I also took the opportunity to change out my top shocks while the frame was out. It's also a good idea to make sure that your rocker drains are not plugged up while you're addressing this issue. (Pics are from the net, I couldn't take any pics during my repairs)

ANSWER 1 (id: 1340_1):
I always thought there were drain holes in that area that are supposed to drain out through the rockers. Not correct? When I remove the rear speaker cover on my vert, I see what looks like a drain hose. Cory

ANSWER 2 (id: 1340_2):
Originally posted by cory58 I always thought there were drain holes in that area that are supposed to drain out through the rockers. Not correct? When I remove the rear speaker cover on my vert, I see what looks like a drain hose. Cory There are drains. Look at the square opening under the wire clips in the pics I posted. They drain down to the rockers. Mine didn’t have any hoses, pours down to the rocker. Not sure if that’s different year to year.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1340_3):
Originally posted by ezrez There are drains. Look at the square opening under the wire clips in the pics I posted. They drain down to the rockers. Mine didn’t have any hoses, pours down to the rocker. Not sure if that’s different year to year. Thanks!