QUESTION ID: 384

QUESTION:
My Dad recently bought himself an E30 325is on the cheap so that he could autocross with me, take some fun weekend trips, etc. The whole suspension is OEM, although it's been well taken care of (including many replaced pieces parts). I talked him into an E30 after he spent a lot of time looking at those P-word cars, since he's familiar with Porsches... Now, I drive a 2003 MINI Cooper that I autocrossed completely stock, learned, and then modded to fit my driving style - wierd to transition to a FWD car for autocrossing after being used to doing it in a RWD. But, the Cooper is now a course slaying machine! Needless to say, I am searching a lot to find good setups for the E30... The E30 is a completely different animal, obviously, and I am learning more each day about setups. Many of the OEM suspension parts are shot (struts and springs), but all the bushings and rubber bits are in good shape since they were recently changed by the prior owner (rear subframe bushings, etc.). Because the springs and struts/shocks are toast, and many other things could use some TLC, AND my Dad's an experienced autocrosser this is what we're thinking - keep in mind that the street ride is still somewhat important so that he can take my Mom on weekend cruises through the countryside: - Bilstein SP's + H&amp;R Sport springs (he doesn't want Konis or a GC setup) - Rear E30 M3 swaybar, reinforcements for all mounting points - Front 22mm H&amp;R swaybar - Offset upper front strut mounts (doesn't want camber plates) - Offset (M3) control arm bushings While we're at it, we're going to replace the control arms, tie-rod ends, front wheel hubs/bearings. All those look pretty shot. Add a set of Falken Azenis on the OEM wheels for some sticky tires in 195/60R14. He's not looking to blaze the field, just have a fun competitive car. He's not looking for a competition suspension or tons of adjustability. Just a firm street ride and good autocross manners. It appears that this setup should provide what he's looking for... Comments?

ANSWER 1 (id: 384_0):
Looks like you did your research, that seems like a great setup. Koni SAs will provide a more compliant ride as well as adjustability to change balance on race day, I'd use these instead.

ANSWER 2 (id: 384_1):
That's a great DD/autox setup, it won't make the car unliveable for day to day usage. The only thing I would suggest is running a -1 degree plate as opposed to the offset mounts, little better turn in for the same cost. I know he stated that he didn't want to go that route, but I'd nudge him anyways. -Charlie

ANSWER 3 (id: 384_2):
Thanks for the feedback. I like the Koni SA's, BUT my biggest beef with them is that you cannot adjust the rears without removing them - same thing on my MINI Cooper, which is why I didn't do with them on my car, either. Kind of defeats the purpose of having adjustability if you can only adjust the Konis on one end of the car at the autocross/track! In my experience, it's difficult to get an "all around good setting" for the rear that works for daily driving and the track - and, when you want to crank up the fronts, you start getting a bit of understeer because you can't firm up the rears. On my car, I ended up going with the Bilstein SP's and don't feel like I'm missing out on anything. Now, if I wanted (or could afford) total adjustability in a coilover I could run on the street, I'd be looking into Motons - but those are quite pricey! :) I'd rather let the springs do the majority of the work, and have enough dampening/rebound to control the springs and tweak the final balance with sways. Seems like Bilstein/H&amp;R work very, very nicely together on every car I have run across. The camber plates up front are a good idea, too, I think... Will try and steer him in that direction...

ANSWER 4 (id: 384_3):
Originally posted by scobib I like the Koni SA's, BUT my biggest beef with them is that you cannot adjust the rears without removing them - same thing on my MINI Cooper, which is why I didn't do with them on my car, either. Kind of defeats the purpose of having adjustability if you can only adjust the Konis on one end of the car at the autocross/track! In my experience, it's difficult to get an "all around good setting" for the rear that works for daily driving and the track - and, when you want to crank up the fronts, you start getting a bit of understeer because you can't firm up the rears. Ground Control sells Konis with knobs in the trunk. Just as easy as adjusting the fronts. ;)

ANSWER 5 (id: 384_4):
Originally posted by Mystikal Ground Control sells Konis with knobs in the trunk. Just as easy as adjusting the fronts. ;) Righto, forgot about that. Only problem is that GC is out of stock until 5/1 for their E30 rears! :) They must have gotten hit hard with people prepping cars for the season. Anyhoo, we'll see how she does with the Bilsteins, first - can always swap them out later.

ANSWER 6 (id: 384_6):
That's almost like my set up. My reccomendation is the suspension techniques swaybar kit. 21mm front, 19mm rear bar. I bought mines new from ebay for $285 shipped. I had tabs welded to the rear lower mount and I bought the Ireland Engineering kit for the upper mount.