QUESTION ID: 1524

QUESTION:
Hey Guys! Getting my parts list together for my 88 ix subframe bushing R&R......just priced the ix rear diff bushing and am wondering if there are any alternatives? The price is over $300! I know about the poly bushing that is much cheaper but would like to go with a rubber bushing if possible. Anyone try a non ix bushing? Maybe the RWD e30 bushing would work? Looks like its a different part # on RealOEM however.... Thanks!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1524_1):
Originally posted by Vincenze I believe the bushing is different because the distance in the bushing is different as the iX sits higher. Thats kinda what I thought as well.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1524_10):
You either use RWD subframe bushings and RWD diff bushing OR RWD subframe bushings and space the diff down with washers and use a AWD diff bushing OR If your ix is stock height, maybe just spend the $300 to keep everything original.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1524_11):
Originally posted by Kershaw You either use RWD subframe bushings and RWD diff bushing OR RWD subframe bushings and space the diff down with washers and use a AWD diff bushing OR If your ix is stock height, maybe just spend the $300 to keep everything original. Thanks for clarifying Kershaw! Those $300 pieces of rubber just rub me the wrong way!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1524_3):
Originally posted by Vincenze I believe the bushing is different because the distance in the bushing is different as the iX sits higher. I don't think so. The bushing is centered - the bracket on the car itself is different to account for the location. But the ix bushing was solid, not webbed like the RWD cars. I have an M-Coupe diff cover/bushing on mine, so I can't be helpful otherwise, but I wouldn't recommend an aftermarket diff bushing unless it's purely a race car. I'd go with stock.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1524_7):
Originally posted by packratbimmer iX on left and RWD on right. Notice straight edge aligned with bolt hole. Very helpful thanks for posting! So looks like the best option (to save money on the bushing anyway) would be to use the RWD bushing and shim the diff as mentioned by Nando in the other thread.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1524_8):
thanks for posting the difference! no, one or the other. if you're not using the ix bushing, you don't really need shims (although it will slightly change your pinion angle). If you're using the ix bushing, then you need to shim it for sure.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1524_9):
Originally posted by nando thanks for posting the difference! no, one or the other. if you're not using the ix bushing, you don't really need shims (although it will slightly change your pinion angle). If you're using the ix bushing, then you need to shim it for sure. Ok so now I am confused nando.... Are you saying I can use the RWD diff bushing on a STANDARD RIDE HEIGHT ix with no shims or other modifications? I'm wondering if the 2 current threads about similar issues are confusing the issues?