QUESTION ID: 460

QUESTION:
Interested to see what folks are running for headless radio setups. What kind of hardware and where have you mounted it? Previously I have used a small amplifier board direct-to-speakers, with a 3.5mm Aux input jack. This is sub-optimal as there isn't an EQ or balance/fade adjustments. I have also used a regular headunit jammed in the glovebox. Don't think I ever got a picture of that one. It was a pain to adjust and I found myself driving around with the glovebox open. My major requirement this time (version 4?) is to have an actual FM tuner. I find myself listening to a lot of radio on my commute, and why have a retro power antenna if you're not going to use it! I would also like a USB port for listening to MP3 podcasts. Some sort of remote or shallow-mount faceplate would also be ideal. Pictures of my previous setups for interest:

ANSWER 1 (id: 460_0):
I've seen this before, which I thought was cool. It uses your phone for everything. It would be cool make a mount for your phone in the radio spot and basically have Android auto/Apple car play in your 30+ year E30. Pioneer SPH-10BT https://www.pacificstereo.com/pioneer-sph-10bt.html?utm_source=google-products&utm_medium=cse&utm_campaign=google-products&keyword=&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIp__P7aid-wIVjUlyCh00hwCIEAQYBiABEgIL8fD_BwE Smart Sync Smartphone Receiver with Built-In Cradle

ANSWER 2 (id: 460_1):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop I've seen this before, which I thought was cool. It uses your phone for everything. It would be cool make a mount for your phone in the radio spot and basically have Android auto/Apple car play in your 30+ year E30. Interesting idea, but I strongly dislike touch screen interfaces in cars. I don't have a phone holder in any vehicle and leave it stowed unless needed for navigation.

ANSWER 3 (id: 460_2):
Yoyo, I'm considering a headless setup for my E30 and would like to know if you could give any input on the process. I'm thinking about either getting a Bluetooth receiver or just using a USB type C to RCA wire that will run from my phone to an equalizer that will then go to an amp that runs to the speakers and a sub (if I can find a box that would fit well in an e30 like the lukebox or the e30 dreamin boxs). I'm still thinking about what speakers, amp, equalizer, and possible Bluetooth receiver to get and would like some recommendations. What are you're thoughts on this and on a headless setup? As well, how do you like the setup that you have and how's it been running for the last few years?

ANSWER 4 (id: 460_3):
Originally posted by B2NTY Yoyo, I'm considering a headless setup for my E30 and would like to know if you could give any input on the process. I'm thinking about either getting a Bluetooth receiver or just using a USB type C to RCA wire that will run from my phone to an equalizer that will then go to an amp that runs to the speakers and a sub (if I can find a box that would fit well in an e30 like the lukebox or the e30 dreamin boxs). I'm still thinking about what speakers, amp, equalizer, and possible Bluetooth receiver to get and would like some recommendations. What are you're thoughts on this and on a headless setup? As well, how do you like the setup that you have and how's it been running for the last few years? I actually just don't have a radio at all in the E30 right now. I'd like to find a shallow-depth retro looking headunit to mount under the steering wheel in the under dash area, but have not been actively looking.