QUESTION ID: 1383

QUESTION:
I managed to get the rear subframe out on my Vert. The washers for the subframe bushings are still stuck to the body (along with some torn off bushing material). Since the subframe bolts are stuck way down in the side panel, I was wondering how exactly I'll go about reattaching them. The bolts are still in place (I think anyway, I was pretty tired by the end of the day), but I don't know how I'll keep them from spinning when I go to put the nuts back on. Any advice would be appreciated. I've done some searching but haven't found a whole bunch.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1383_0):
The bolts are ridged, they won't spin if they are all the way down. To get the washers (they aren't washers, they are actually part of the bushings that have broken off) out of the body, I used this method: https://r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=136816&t=136816 I pounded and pounded on that steel rod with a small sledgehammer and just when I thought I was screwed, it popped out like a bomb going off. And that'a AFTER I sprayed it with penetrating oil for about a day.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1383_1):
Originally posted by Mwishlist The bolts are ridged, they won't spin if they are all the way down. To get the washers (they aren't washers, they are actually part of the bushings that have broken off) out of the body, I used this method: https://r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=136816&t=136816 I pounded and pounded on that steel rod with a small sledgehammer and just when I thought I was screwed, it popped out like a bomb going off. And that'a AFTER I sprayed it with penetrating oil for about a day. Sweet, I thought they might catch but I didn't know for sure. Thanks for the advice! Sent from my SM-G955U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1383_2):
Yup - I just went through this a couple weeks ago. All in, I would say my battle with the bushings lasted close to a month. Ultimately I won using this method. But the process S-U-C-K-E-D. The secret is to just stay with it and keep pounding. At one point I was tempted to add the torch, but DON'T because the gas tank is right there.