QUESTION ID: 1788

QUESTION:
I remeber this being a thread on E3S, but do not believe a similar was started on R3V. Just curious on who all is an engineer on this board. (Or studying to be one, or planning on it) Personally, I'm headed up to Purdue, for ME next year. (It's ME program is ranked 6th in the nation) My father went to Rose-Hulman in ME (but got sick of it and changed careers). Franz, Ely, Rosica, who else? Does anyone know much about Rod Millan? I saw a peice on Speed channel about how his engineering firm put the Lexus V8 in the IS300. That would be an awesome job.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1788_0):
Count me I'm starting the ME program at a provincial unversity (I'm in Canada :P) I'm also thinking about being in the formula program they offer. ...Mitch

ANSWER 2 (id: 1788_10):
I just got my ME degree from Southern Illinois University Edwardsville in December. Still looking for a job though. It's a tough program, but look at what you start out making compared to other majors. Our campus was a dry campus as well,...most schools are, but of course people still drink. Who says you have to carry books in your back pack? Dorms are lame, get out as soon as you can. Someone find me a job. :curse:

ANSWER 3 (id: 1788_11):
Originally posted by Beej '86 325es Dorms are lame, get out as soon as you can. Someone find me a job. :curse: I don't have to stay in one first year, but everyone recommends it to meet new people, so yeah. Second year: rent an appartment, or if I'm lucky enough, buy a duplex. My dad's a realtor, so we'd have to check out the market up there. But pretty much it'd pay for itself in the end. Purdue is great at finding work for its graduates, or so I hear a lot. Engineers are supposed to be really needed now, so you should be able to find a good job. As far as $$ when you start out, engineers are supposed to be near the top of the undergraduate career fields. Doctors and lawyers obviously can make more on average, but I don't like blood or illness, and I don't like the law, and I love numbers, science, and the way things work. Good luck Brandon.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1788_12):
Ya, I've got one year left and I'll have an Associates degree in Mechanical Engineering tech. and in Computer aided design/manufacturing. Then the other day when signing up for classes my advisor told me i could take just one more class and get a degree in Hydro also. I personally never study, so far in two years the only thing I ever study are just formula's for math. I've getting straight B's so I'm happy. That's just the type of person I am once I hear it in class I remeber it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1788_2):
Planning on ME at U of Rochester, or Marquette Uni. Got to decided that this week! Or I can go to Clarkson Uni where they have someone intering with BMW in Austria. But they dont have any females at that school. :P

ANSWER 6 (id: 1788_3):
Ted, yeah, I realized that. HA. ......I was too lazy to go back and edit it later. But I'd love to do what he does for a living. Thinking of the ways to put M5 motors in Z4's, V8s in 3 series, V12's in E39's........sick. That, and turbo the shit of out things! :P Dude. My friend was checking out Rochester, but it was $$$$ even with a scholarship, and it is a DRY campus......and frisbee is forbidden on the main lawn. :shock:

ANSWER 7 (id: 1788_4):
Originally posted by rwh11385 Dude. My friend was checking out Rochester, but it was $$$$ even with a scholarship, and it is a DRY campus......and frisbee is forbidden on the main lawn. :shock: It is the cheapest school I am looking at aid wise. They give me awesome scholarships and mostly grants, only 1 small loan. It better not be a dry campus, and I don't really think it is according to what one sophomore I was talking to said. But, I will have to change that if it is. Frisbee is not forbidden on the main lawn. When I was there guys were throwing it around, granted they were not playing ultimate or tearing the grass up, so maybe. And the dorms are pretty damn big, and nice.

ANSWER 8 (id: 1788_5):
Originally posted by rwh11385 and it is a DRY campus Dry campus... LOL... what a joke. I attended a school with a 'dry' campus (Gonzaga). You could drink every night of the week if you were so inclined to.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1788_6):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by rwh11385 and it is a DRY campus Dry campus... LOL... what a joke. I attended a school with a 'dry' campus (Gonzaga). You could drink every night of the week if you were so inclined to. The dry campus part scares me and my friends away for sure. Of course our campuses are WET: IU, Purdue, Ball State. So, by comparison, 'dry' would be a desert! IU is a legendary party school, but Purdue is earning respect as well. Maybe it was Ultimate Frisbee that was banned, at the quad or whatever you call it. I dunno. Gambling is supposedly forbidden in Purdue dorms, but that won't stop me and my buddies up there. Are we speaking about the same Rochester, I'm referring to Rochester Institute of Technology in New York. I think he was speaking of $30K a year maybe? Whereas Purdue is like 17,000 for in-staters.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1788_7):
I'm a 4th year MechE student. 1 more year left. I'm on the 5 year plan since I've done 3 sessions of Co-Oping. My advice: -1st semester or two is going to be the hardest. You need be able to adapt to new study habits, teaching habits, and life in the dorms. Its easy to blame a prof as being "bad", but at the end of the day, YOU have to learn the material and earn the grade. -First 2 years are a little frustrating since you are taking all sorts of core classes (Chem, physics, math, etc), but won't really be able to see how they apply. -Find an engineering club/society/project that you enjoy, and get invovled. SAE and ASME are great organizations. -Co-Op!!! Purdue has an excellent co-op program. -A wireless laptop is a good idea. You can take it to the library to study, or meet with groups when you have to write lab reports. -Work hard and Play Hard! That means get your studying done during the week, then get out and party on the weekends. BTW, see http://www.rodmillen.com/ Jonathan

ANSWER 11 (id: 1788_8):
Your thinking of RIT, my buddy is going there. I am speaking of University of Rochester. Totally different, so maybe what you said is true. To bad for him. I hear a lot of the people from RIT come to U of Rochester for the parties and social stuff though, so it does sound like it could be true.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1788_9):
Originally posted by Z3Jonathan I'm a 4th year MechE student. 1 more year left. I'm on the 5 year plan since I've done 3 sessions of Co-Oping. My advice: -1st semester or two is going to be the hardest. You need be able to adapt to new study habits, teaching habits, and life in the dorms. Its easy to blame a prof as being "bad", but at the end of the day, YOU have to learn the material and earn the grade. -First 2 years are a little frustrating since you are taking all sorts of core classes (Chem, physics, math, etc), but won't really be able to see how they apply. -Find an engineering club/society/project that you enjoy, and get invovled. SAE and ASME are great organizations. -Co-Op!!! Purdue has an excellent co-op program. -A wireless laptop is a good idea. You can take it to the library to study, or meet with groups when you have to write lab reports. -Work hard and Play Hard! That means get your studying done during the week, then get out and party on the weekends. BTW, see http://www.rodmillen.com/ Jonathan Wow, thanks for the tips! :up: I think it might be a shock to have independence and all that jazz, dorms, etc. I however, have near zero study skills, and leave things for the night before, but I will need to get back to the hardwork I did before becoming a slacker! Chem, Physics, and Math should be all review from classes I took in high school, so hopefully I should get along fine. I will hopefully find some clubs, and good study groups, and definately joining SAE! I've heard good things about Co-op'ing at Purdue, but might not need it. I'm trying to get a Masters in 5 years, so I'm not sure if I can fit in Co-Op. I'm absolutely getting a laptop with wireless internet. Purdue's academic campus is fully hooked up with it. Purdue is known for the best parties in Indiana now. :D Just gotta keep a 3.5 GPA. I hope an opportunity opens up when I'm about to graduate to allow me to work on projects such as Rod Millen. I kinda hope that I might spend some time making my own exhaust design for the E30, and maybe producing it. Just as an application of the principles I'm going to learn. bwanac, I just assumed you were talking about RIT, sorry for the confusion.