QUESTION ID: 3037

QUESTION:
The Worst Person On Earth Also Destroyed An E30 And We're Not Letting That Slide - Jalopnik http://jalopnik.com/1797091459 Ex-Vine star and sentient dab Jake Paul is, without a doubt, the worst person in the universe, regurgitating played out memes and destroying things in the name of “random.” Unfortunately, one of the victims on his tour of dumb was an E30-generation BMW 325i and we cannot in good faith let that slide. Was it "perfectly good" as the article claims?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3037_0):
Terrible to see an E30 being wasted because of some waffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswaffleswaffles. But, that was nothing. Once blew up a very tired, very abused 80's Suburban with 20 lbs of tannerite. Now that was an explosion. The metal roof blew off, and was flung 4-5 stories into the air. #lame

ANSWER 2 (id: 3037_11):
Haven't watched the whole video just yet, but from the couple of Jalopnik articles, he's a total douche. That was determined within 30 seconds. I will watch the whole thing and post a "lovely" comment. I hope his neighbours do sue his ass. Assholes like this deserve the karma they have coming to them. And that Rally footage was some EPIC driving! A great cure to be sure for the douchebaggery. :D

ANSWER 3 (id: 3037_2):
Shit. I just recently heard about all the drama about this guy, and I noticed this E30 in the background of some video on him. I was hoping it wouldn't end like this, but not surprising. This is one of those kids that should have gotten his ass kicked, but didn't.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3037_4):
It wasn't his car? From the link: "The car just needed a jump on its battery from sitting a while, and they’re idiots for not driving it around after the car’s owner Stan left the country".

ANSWER 5 (id: 3037_7):
God Damnit Burg! Didn't you and I already have a fucking conversation on posting shit that immediately give its viewers cancer!?!?! Fucking A, I just got rid of all the tumors in my brain from seeing that vape wedding picture. And now you go and drop that horrendous pile of dirty shit. Fuck!

ANSWER 6 (id: 3037_8):
Originally posted by MR E30 325is God Damnit Burg! Didn't you and I already have a fucking conversation on posting shit that immediately give its viewers cancer!?!?! Fucking A, I just got rid of all the tumors in my brain from seeing that vape wedding picture. And now you go and drop that horrendous pile of dirty shit. Fuck! I have the cure BRO <3 I will never hurt you again