QUESTION ID: 3440

QUESTION:
So I've seen this come up in a few threads in the past few days and I know there are a couple old threads about double-clutching, but I guess I don't see the use for double-clutching during street use. I work on/race vintage cars and know how to double clutch so I am familiar with it. I guess my knowledge is as follows: double clutching, especially in race conditions, allows the gearbox to slow down and puts less stress on the synchros. This helps them live longer and puts less stress on the box. If the box has no synchros (i.e. dogbox), you can shift without the clutch, much less double-clutch. In normal road conditions, the box is not under enough stress to necessitate double-clutching and a slow shift will serve the same purposes in terms of function. Also, regular double-clutching can put extra wear and tear on the pressure plate fingers and other moving parts in the clutch assembly. So basically, is it a "just because" choice to double clutch, or am I missing knowledge about this? Thanks!

ANSWER 1 (id: 3440_10):
Double clutch is you put clutch in and take out of gear to neutral, then release clutch. Then push clutch back in and put into gear and then release clutch. It's hella stupid and a waste of time IF YOU HAVE SYNCRO when you can just leave your foot on the clutch and accomplish the same fucking thing.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3440_11):
Originally posted by Thizzelle Double clutch is you put clutch in and take out of gear to neutral, then release clutch. Then push clutch back in and put into gear and then release clutch. It's hella stupid and a waste of time IF YOU HAVE SYNCRO when you can just leave your foot on the clutch and accomplish the same fucking thing. called rev-matching, and this is how i do it, along with most people who drive a manual. you hit the clutch, rev it up, ride it the way down the revs and boom, you down shifted.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3440_4):
Originally posted by ELVA164 So I've seen this come up in a few threads in the past few days and I know there are a couple old threads about double-clutching, but I guess I don't see the use for double-clutching during street use. I work on/race vintage cars and know how to double clutch so I am familiar with it. I guess my knowledge is as follows: double clutching, especially in race conditions, allows the gearbox to slow down and puts less stress on the synchros. This helps them live longer and puts less stress on the box. If the box has no synchros (i.e. dogbox), you can shift without the clutch, much less double-clutch. In normal road conditions, the box is not under enough stress to necessitate double-clutching and a slow shift will serve the same purposes in terms of function. Also, regular double-clutching can put extra wear and tear on the pressure plate fingers and other moving parts in the clutch assembly. So basically, is it a "just because" choice to double clutch, or am I missing knowledge about this? Thanks! Holy Shitballs mom... are you serious? Ok, I want you to Open up Netflix, go to a RedBxx or use your On Demand. And I want you to find a movie called "The Fast and The Furious". I want you to watch it. Twice. Then come back here...

ANSWER 4 (id: 3440_7):
because Originally posted by ELVA164 So I've seen this come up in a few threads in the past few days and I know there are a couple old threads about double-clutching, but I guess I don't see the use for double-clutching during street use. I work on/race vintage cars and know how to double clutch so I am familiar with it. I guess my knowledge is as follows: double clutching, especially in race conditions, allows the gearbox to slow down and puts less stress on the synchros. This helps them live longer and puts less stress on the box. If the box has no synchros (i.e. dogbox), you can shift without the clutch, much less double-clutch. In normal road conditions, the box is not under enough stress to necessitate double-clutching and a slow shift will serve the same purposes in terms of function. Also, regular double-clutching can put extra wear and tear on the pressure plate fingers and other moving parts in the clutch assembly. So basically, is it a "just because" choice to double clutch, or am I missing knowledge about this? Thanks!