QUESTION ID: 409

QUESTION:
Since the main focus of my next E30 is going to be its handling capabilities, I'd like to start learning as much about suspension as I can. I've been reading a ton of the posts in this section, but I'm wondering if anyone knows of any good suspension books, or other good places to absorb more info, specifically on BMW suspension?

ANSWER 1 (id: 409_10):
me included. I guess i'm trying to make the point that all the 'theory' is great, but it helps a lot if you can see the stuff in action, feel what its like

ANSWER 2 (id: 409_11):
Originally posted by Rob you'll learn more about suspension at your first autocross than in 5 whole books... practical, hands on learning rocks Werd to that, I plan to autocross quite a bit once I get my car. I'd really like a lot of the focus of my next E30 to be on suspension and handling. I'll be looking to fine-tune a suspension set-up that will be good for daily driving (I don't mind a reasonably stiff ride) and regular long spirited drives, but that can also get the job done on an autocross course as well.

ANSWER 3 (id: 409_12):
Originally posted by Eurospeed88 Thanks for the suggestion, but it doens't cover any cars any newer than 1980. I'll see if maybe our library has it first. If you hadn't noticed, the e30 really isn't above a Datsun 510 in terms of any sort of suspension setup, so everything in that book is completely relevant. -Charlie

ANSWER 4 (id: 409_13):
Originally posted by Rob you'll learn more about suspension at your first autocross than in 5 whole books... practical, hands on learning rocks Amen. But getting a head start never hurts :D

ANSWER 5 (id: 409_2):
I dont think a whole lot has changed... at least nothing that you'll be putting in your car (unless you want to spend 5k on remotely adjustable dampeners), even then, principles are the same.

ANSWER 6 (id: 409_4):
^^yep, definately a good book, although it's been a couple of years since I last read it. Check out books by an author named Carroll Smith as well... He's widely regarded as a car setup guru. I think he's released four books - Engineer to Win, Prepare to Win, Drive to Win and something else about winning. Can't remember. But all four books are excellent reads, although most of it is racecar specific. Not much info on machpherson struts or semi-trailing arms - mostly double wishbone stuff - but good nonetheless. Also read some of the tech articles here http://e30m3performance.com/ if you haven't already. This guy knows his shit, and it's e30 specific too.

ANSWER 7 (id: 409_6):
Originally posted by Streetspec_iS ^ you heard it from Mr Shock Absorber Engineer himself. heh :D just realised I spelt 'macpherson' wrong above. how professional. and i'm still waiting for my wheels ya punk...

ANSWER 8 (id: 409_9):
Originally posted by Rob you'll learn more about suspension at your first autocross than in 5 whole books... practical, hands on learning rocks You'd be suprised though how little the average autocrosser knows about suspension set up.