QUESTION ID: 387

QUESTION:
I just had a new set of H&amp;R sport springs, Bilsten Sport Shocks and IE sway bars in my 325i cabrio. After they were installed the car pulled to the left a bit so i had it alligned. Now after the allignment ive noticed that the car will pull in whichever directiion the last hard corner was... turn hard to the right and the car will pull to the right, turn hard to the left the car will pull to the left. I took it bad to the guy who installed all the parts and everything seems to be in order and tight. Anyone have any ideas? steering rack maybe? Damian

ANSWER 1 (id: 387_0):
Check to make sure that there is a washer between the spring hat and the strut bearing. My guess is that your hats are rubbing on your bearings. Does the steering seem heavier than before you had them put in? Same shit happened to me; I left it out on accident. And make sure your bearings are packed with good grease. Take it back to whatever hack job of a mechanic installed them and have him do it right.

ANSWER 2 (id: 387_1):
I will ask him on monday, but normally he is an excellent mechanic, i was talking with the alignment shop today and they seem to think it might be the outer ball joints..

ANSWER 3 (id: 387_4):
Originally posted by diablo98110 I will ask him on monday, but normally he is an excellent mechanic, i was talking with the alignment shop today and they seem to think it might be the outer ball joints.. Doubtful... unless they utterly destroyed. My guess is he left out the washers.

ANSWER 4 (id: 387_6):
no its not, and my car did the same thing and my ball joints wern't utterly destoyed i changed controll arms and the problem went away, its just a bit of camber so it follows the lines of the road. i can't remeber if i put the washer in either and i really dont want to take it all appart again, maybe if i decide to to a brake kit or somthing...

ANSWER 5 (id: 387_7):
its not a matter of the car following the road. I can stop in the middle of the road (slow road, good visability duh) and crank the wheel to the left and after that it will pull left, do the same thing, crank right and it will pull right. Also, the more agressive you take a corner, the more agressive the pull.