QUESTION ID: 2624

QUESTION:
I've been using my old wooden craftsman creeper for about 25 years and I'm tired of this POS. It's time for an upgrade. I want to focus on a more comfy one with larger wheels due to my driveway not being too smooth. Nothing is more frustrating than trying to swivel your body around and the creeper doesn't move but you push yourself off the thing and on to the driveway. What is everyone using? suggestions?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2624_0):
I'm curious about this too. The craftsman I have is heavy doesn't roll smoothly. I usually lay down some rubber pads on the floor but would love a creeper you can lock the wheels so you don't move when torquing a bolt. Sent from my SM-G970U using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 2624_1):
I just went and got the grey plastic harbor freight one. $30. It’s probably not that great but I’ve never had a creeper before so I wouldn’t know the difference..

ANSWER 3 (id: 2624_11):
Originally posted by E30Gus I've decided on one of the cheapo plastic ones from Harbor/N.Tool. The wheels are 3" dia which is much better than what I am working with currently and the price point is good. I usually depend on cardboard when removing a tranny or other large items so I have the extra clearance. I like the creeper so that I can get in and out easily...this likely means that I need to learn to bring with me ALL the tools I need and then some to reduce the in and out marathon. If I wasn't in a HOA I would have had a lift years ago. I've even thought about getting creative with some fake plants as camo for one of the posts. I've worn holes in shirts sliding around cardboard.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2624_2):
Matco sells a nice no frills plastic creeper that seems to work fine, not sure of the actual price, but probably too much. Didn't care for the bone style of creeper, whatever the brand name was. Other features I like, slight abdomen contouring, wheels under the creeper, but right at the edge so you can untangle from stuff you run over, a side mounted handle, and an unobtrusive headrest. I primarily used creepers for inspections and quick jobs, like an oil change on a truck, but otherwise prefer to work off of the ground/floor. Wheel choice is crucial for creepers not used on flat shop floors, so be prepared to spend for a capable unit.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2624_3):
Good to know about the bone style creeper. I've always wondered how they were. Northern Tool/Harbor freight one looks pretty good for the price. There are a ton of types out there so I may just have to pick one and try it out.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2624_4):
That's probably the way to go, just identify what you don't like about the current creeper (probably the disc wheels if it's the one I think it is), and buy something you think will fix the primary issue. The HF creeper probably has really bad wheels, but the entry point is low, so maybe you can find a set of wheels that would be an upgrade. Make sure the deck will not flex too much too.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2624_8):
I have used creepers personally and professionally for years. The bone is ok, it's good for being under trucks on rough cement. I personally like creepers that are simple with caster wheels. I included a picture. Anything that folds or bends will suck and not get used much. The only thing that pisses me off is getting my shirt wrapped up in the wheel. I try to use a lift or just cardboard. Cardboard is flat, you can slide across it rather well, and when you push with your arms removing something tight you won't roll. Choose your poison.

ANSWER 8 (id: 2624_9):
I've decided on one of the cheapo plastic ones from Harbor/N.Tool. The wheels are 3" dia which is much better than what I am working with currently and the price point is good. I usually depend on cardboard when removing a tranny or other large items so I have the extra clearance. I like the creeper so that I can get in and out easily...this likely means that I need to learn to bring with me ALL the tools I need and then some to reduce the in and out marathon. If I wasn't in a HOA I would have had a lift years ago. I've even thought about getting creative with some fake plants as camo for one of the posts.