QUESTION ID: 2584

QUESTION:
I tried the EAT chips website, and used the e-mail address there. Any other ideas?

ANSWER 1 (id: 2584_0):
Look elsewhere, buy from someone else. i bought an m60 chip from him 2 years ago. The chip is fine, but the effort put forth to get said chip wasn't worth it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2584_10):
Originally posted by MarkD What email address did you send from? I'll search for your email. I try very hard to answer most emails within 24 hours or less, many are answered in one hour. Yours must have slipped through. Did you use mark@dsylva-tech.ca ? MarkD No problem at all, thanks for the reply - nothing urgent, it’s just a hobby! Yes that’s the e-mail address I used. I’ll re-send my e-mail, thanks.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2584_11):
Originally posted by MarkD What email address did you send from? I'll search for your email. I try very hard to answer most emails within 24 hours or less, many are answered in one hour. Yours must have slipped through. Did you use mark@dsylva-tech.ca ? MarkD Checking back in. I did send an email, haven’t gotten a response yet.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2584_12):
Originally posted by mach schnell Checking back in. I did send an email, haven’t gotten a response yet. Sorry, I saw your email and thought that I responded. In the last month I've been quite busy with work, waiting in line for food etc. I'll respond to your email in a few hours.

ANSWER 5 (id: 2584_13):
Originally posted by mach schnell Checking back in. I did send an email, haven’t gotten a response yet. I just looked for your email and can't find anything, probably because I don't know what to search for (it's not your name here) Please send one more email and put "MACH SCHNELL" in the subject line, and i'll respond by noon on Friday!

ANSWER 6 (id: 2584_4):
Odd. Mark is usually on top of things. Many years ago I emailed him a question, and he called me back immediately from CAN to US, on an international call to boot.

ANSWER 7 (id: 2584_5):
Originally posted by AWDBOB You have to contact this email instead ;) info@sssquid.com Jessie and I used to chat a lot, but that was a long time ago (anyone remember "Motronic Geeks” thread on e30tech?)....

ANSWER 8 (id: 2584_6):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird Jessie and I used to chat a lot, but that was a long time ago (anyone remember "Motronic Geeks” thread on e30tech?).... Jay has written a tune for every one of my E30s. It's one of the first mods I do to every car! He now has the ability to run Motronic 1.3 on MAF and MAP (not like Miller junk, but a true conversion, rather). He's doing some pretty awesome stuff! I always push good products where I can.

ANSWER 9 (id: 2584_7):
I have a eurotrash chip which is a boot leg mark D allegedly. Its for 91+ octane. I'd be willing to part with it. Tbh I can't really tell a difference from stock but other people are big fans

ANSWER 10 (id: 2584_9):
Originally posted by mach schnell I tried the EAT chips website, and used the e-mail address there. Any other ideas? What email address did you send from? I'll search for your email. I try very hard to answer most emails within 24 hours or less, many are answered in one hour. Yours must have slipped through. Did you use mark@dsylva-tech.ca ? MarkD