QUESTION ID: 719

QUESTION:
I wrote this over a year ago and posted it on some other, unspecified forum. Since then I've gone to a little nub antenna, but you can get the picture of the install here. My car is currently disassembled, and when I put it back together I'll take some better pics and show how to wire it (even though it's really easy). Welp, here we go: Okay, I know there have been numerous threads about putting in a z3/318ti antenna, but i want to end the discussion. I'll show exactly what parts i used and tell how I did it. First, you will need the antenna base. You can get one from a z3 or a 318ti, both are the same. I found mine in a wrecking yard in a z3 and got it for $25. If you buy new, it will cost you significantly more. Here is a picture of the one i used: PN 65218375159 It came with a bracket on it, but i simply took it off and threw it away. It is not necessary. The next thing you will need is a grommet to hold the base in place. When i called the dealer and asked for the grommet for a z3, they told me there were 4 different types. So i asked about the grommet for the 318ti and they had that one so i used it. It works perfectly and i don't know the difference between it and the ones from the z3. Here is a picture of the new grommet and the one i took off from my car: The new one from the 318ti is on the right and the old one is on the left. The PN for the grommet is 65218362369. The third and last thing you will need is an antenna. I chose to get a stock one, but there are a number of different choices. You can get any one that will fit a z3 or 318ti and possibly ones from a z4. I got the stock one from the 318ti. The part number is 65218362368. Now that I've got it on my car, I'll probably get a different one that is shorter. I don't have any pictures from the install, but it is very simple. First, you simply remove the power antenna and it's bracket. The connection to the antenna is the same as the e30 one, so you can simply screw that one on the new base. For the power hook up, there is a plug for the power antenna that you will want to remove. Then you want to probe the two wires and see which is constant 12V. On my car it was red and the switched was white. The connector for the e30 will actually slide right in to the one on the new base. Then you want to ground the new base to something. I used the point that the power antenna was grounded to. Here is a pic of the connections on the new base: Now you're pretty much done. You need to remove the old grommet and put the new one. Do this from the top. It's very simple, just get the seal over the edge of the hole. Then just push the base up though the grommet until it goes all the way in. The grommet will support the base. Now you just need to screw the antenna on and you're good to go. Here's a pic of the final product. And one up close of the grommet Pay no attention to the thick film of dirt on my car, I know it's in need of a wash. And if i were to do this again, I don't think I would pay the $25 for the OEM antenna. I will end up replacing it eventually, so I would recommend just buying a different one off of Ebay right off the bat.

ANSWER 1 (id: 719_1):
Originally posted by Tenassi Do you have other pictures ? I would like to see how it looks when the key is not in the ignition switch. AHahahahaha. I'll assume the same.

ANSWER 2 (id: 719_10):
Originally posted by Tenassi Do you have other pictures ? I would like to see how it looks when the key is not in the ignition switch. i love this comment! it made me lawl a few months ago just as hard i lawled tonight.

ANSWER 3 (id: 719_11):
This might be known already, but the antenna from E36 convertibles is the same base and part number. I just got my base today. Just need a stubby now.

ANSWER 4 (id: 719_5):
Yes, it is smaller. It's probably 12-18 inches. Bu I don't use the one pictured anymore. I bought a stubby antenna on ebay that looks much better. But don't be fooled by anyone that says reception is just as good with the short ones; it's not. I leave the stubby one on because it looks better and I don't listen to the radio that much, but I keep the long one in case I ever go on a long trip or something.

ANSWER 5 (id: 719_6):
Originally posted by TwoJ's Yes, it is smaller. It's probably 12-18 inches. Bu I don't use the one pictured anymore. I bought a stubby antenna on ebay that looks much better. But don't be fooled by anyone that says reception is just as good with the short ones; it's not. I leave the stubby one on because it looks better and I don't listen to the radio that much, but I keep the long one in case I ever go on a long trip or something. Have a link to which stubby?

ANSWER 6 (id: 719_8):
Just installed mine (stock 318ti set up). I used this write up to do it. Very easy and cool. I think my reception is even better than my OE one. If you are worried about the stability, just get a new grommet. The used one that came with mine works fine, but a new one would probably be tighter.