QUESTION ID: 1649

QUESTION:
Hi all! Just wanted to share a cool E30 M3 that I've spent some time around for the past few years. Alpine white with a crimson red interior. Working for Alex at Glen Shelly, I've had the opportunity to be around some unique cars. All of them have come and go, but this car is still the only one that has stuck around since the beginning. When I first toured the place, this car stuck out to me the most. And I've fallen in love with every bit of it. My ideal BMW spec would be white exterior and red interior, slap that on one of the most iconic M3's of all time and you're bound to stare at it for hours. This car was a customer's project car; he supposedly rebuilt the engine himself and then brought the car to Alex to finish the rebuild process. It sat in the corner for a while and was forgotten about until finally it was time to get it back on the road... well so we thought. One of the technicians worked on it for quite a while, dumped a bunch of money and hours of labor into the car, but could never quite get it figured out. Once the business closed, Alex still had the car in his possession and decided to take the car to a local repair shop to see if they could fix it. They managed to get it running and driving good enough, but it still had issues, I almost had the opportunity to drive it back to the hangar from the repair shop but was busy so I couldn't help. I did manage to get my hands on the car for just a few hours, replacing the bent clutch pedal (how it got bent is beyond me) and detailing the car. This E30 M3 has slowly inched toward the asphalt and maybe someday will be road worthy again, the license plate has a registration from 2015, so it's been 11 years off the road!!! How someone keeps and E30 M3 off the road for that long I don't understand, maybe the owner has been busy with life, but I hope someday it can stretch its legs and get back out there, this car is just simply too beautiful to keep tucked away broken in a garage. This car makes me smile every time I see it, and there's been talks about being able to drive the car once its registered and insured, I'll cross my fingers and cross that off the list of M3's I've driven.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1649_0):
White exterior with red interior is quite iconic. My favorite BMW iteration of that combo is found on the z4 M Coupe, but I’ll be damned if the e30s lines aren’t better looking. sweet car, hope you guys get it road worthy

ANSWER 2 (id: 1649_1):
Nice to see survivor cars out there in original form. It was once common to swap the interior to black or even beige over the red which makes it even more unique to see today. The clutch pedal bracket breaking is more common in M3's probably because we have to shift more often to stay in the powerband.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1649_3):
gerrycg Correct, Glen Shelly closed down last year last year due to legal battles with the city that Alex never quite recovered from. His last two cars are an E36 M3 LTW that he just sold and a supercharged 740i E38 which is currently broken. We lost a legendary seller!

ANSWER 4 (id: 1649_5):
Some of the cleanest E30's I've ever seen in my life, it was a special place and eventually I want to carry on the legacy. I'm trying to get my foot in the door with my parts store, all the photos on there are cars I've photographed for sale at Glen Shelly. Revelocitymotors | eBay Stores