QUESTION ID: 1309

QUESTION:
I am nearly ready to put the driveshaft back in and have the guibo/balancer combo. When I took it apart all of the bolts were facing the same way (was a super PITA to get out) but I notice Realoem shows the bolts in opposite ways. Can anyone confirm which way the bolts go? Mine when I removed... and realoem...

ANSWER 1 (id: 1309_1):
Originally posted by punnzzells I have always seen all my e30's , pre and post, quibo change with the bolts as per realoem. so interchanged? Balancer and guibo only the bolt head was at the front and the ones with trans output, balancer, and guibo the head was at the rear?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1309_2):
Not all are equal. Some flanges have the bolts pressed in, some just bolt through, and many don't have the ring (which isn't a balancer as much it is a guard for a failed Giubo). Your car probably came with the bolts all facing the same way, this is evident by the fact that the bolts cannot fit between the flange and gearbox case. To reverse them, someone would have had to remove the output flange. The only time I have ever seen them facing opposite is when the output flange has the pressed in knurled bolts. On a side note, if you think is was a pain to remove with all the bolts facing in, then you have never changed one with the pressed in bolts. On that style, you have to remove the drive shaft first, only then you an remove the Giubo. In your case, I would have left the ring off, then you can either leave the Giubo on the shaft, or flange and shaft can come out. The ring is what caused your grief.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1309_3):
Originally posted by ForcedFirebird Not all are equal. Some flanges have the bolts pressed in, some just bolt through, and many don't have the ring (which isn't a balancer as much it is a guard for a failed Giubo). Your car probably came with the bolts all facing the same way, this is evident by the fact that the bolts cannot fit between the flange and gearbox case. To reverse them, someone would have had to remove the output flange. The only time I have ever seen them facing opposite is when the output flange has the pressed in knurled bolts. On a side note, if you think is was a pain to remove with all the bolts facing in, then you have never changed one with the pressed in bolts. On that style, you have to remove the drive shaft first, only then you an remove the Giubo. In your case, I would have left the ring off, then you can either leave the Giubo on the shaft, or flange and shaft can come out. The ring is what caused your grief. Yep, Ive had 5 e30's and haven't seen one with pressed in bolts..so I call that lucky. The first pic in how mine was before I took it all apart.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1309_4):
It's not mentioned but make sure the alternating arrows on the Giubo point towards the flanges. I typically install the bolts the same direction of the arrow and that leaves the bolt head against the Giubo and doesn't twist the rubber when tightening, this was critical on the old doughnut style (man I hated those!). As mentioned it's not a balancer but is a vibration damper, it is two piece rubber insulated and was originally mounted like in your pic and on the driveshaft side of the Giubo and flange and many(most?) have been removed by now.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1309_5):
Yeah the current Giubo's have metal rings in them so they don't get bound. I can't tell you how many Giubo's done (well, re-done) at the shop because an owner did their own work and can't figure out why the new Giubo only lasted a week. When looking at one in your hand it makes sense. There are thin areas that get the tension in forward gears, the thicker part is for compression. I am also not convinced that all cars came with them. Back in my early days of the shop opening, e30's weren't THAT old (13years ago), many we worked on had never been touched in their lives. Thinking back, it's pretty nice knowing customers are willing to pay for quality work on them these days. I flipped a few of them back then - a decent e30 could be had for $2500. The market was very similar to today's e46's.