QUESTION ID: 1708

QUESTION:
Hi there! I bought my first BMW a couple of weeks ago. It is a 1983 320i that needs alot of work, rust repairs etc. The car runs, but when I first filled up 5 litres of petrol and started the engine quite alot of fuel was leaking from the fuel tank somewhere. I removed what I thought was an in-tank fuel pump assembly and there was alot of rust around this area and the o-ring was old and hard. So I hope I have located the problem. Since the in-tank unit looked like it had seen better days + the engine needed alot of cranking before it started, I decided looking into replacing the in-tank pump and the external high pressure pump with a single high pressure in-tank fuel pump. However, I discovered that the assembly in the tank was just a fuel level sensor unit. So, my car has just one pump and it is the external one. I have tried to find some information, but it seems like this fuel system is rather uncommon? My e30 is one of the earlier models and I guess BMW decided to ditch this setup for some reason. Does anyone here run just an external pump? Since I dont have an in-tank pump assembly to install an aftermarket high pressure pump in, I am not sure what to do now. Shall I leave it like it is, replacing the external pump and try to get the tank sealed? Or can I install a combined in-tank pump and level sensor and get this to work (show the correct fuel level)? Thanks​

ANSWER 1 (id: 1708_0):
never seen a set up like that on either e21 or e30. the sending unit is separate from the in-tank pump in every other car i've seen. i'm not sure there is a combined sending unit and pump you can go to. there are loads of aftermarket pumps you can use even if staying with the large external.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1708_1):
My 323i was the same way. I deleted the main pump and used the combination intank pump and sending unit from an early US car found on 84-87 325e/i and M3. I replaced the low pressure pump with a high pressure as well. Works great.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1708_2):
In 1983- make sure it's Motronic 1.x, and not CIS by some unholy BMW parts bin fuckery. (but I agree, even the E21 CIS had a lift pump in the tank, in the cars I've taken apart) If it's indeed electronic, then yes, an in- tank pump's probably the clean way to do this. The late 318i mounting system works, too- you do have to change the wiring harness to later connectors, and potentially add a return line, but once it's done, then the pump itself is easy. t

ANSWER 4 (id: 1708_3):
yep same as my euro 1984 323i. that was originally L-Jetronic. Yours being 1983, is it L-Jetronic as well? Given the condition of that tank, id be lookin to find a replacement late model in tank pump and tank complete. Tidy things up a bit.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1708_4):
Originally posted by e30davie yep same as my euro 1984 323i. that was originally L-Jetronic. Yours being 1983, is it L-Jetronic as well? Given the condition of that tank, id be lookin to find a replacement late model in tank pump and tank complete. Tidy things up a bit. Yes, mine is L-jetronic also. After cleaning the tank with a wire brush it didnt look as horrible and I filled it up with water and it didnt leak. I will have it sandblasted and powder coated soon (diy). Yesterday I removed the fuel vapor expansion tank and I am thinking of deleting this one somehow. This car doesnt have the charcoal canister so shouldnt be too complicated? At the moment it seems to vent fumes to the atmosphere anyway.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1708_5):
happy days then. paint it up and run it. my car does have a charcoal canister in the engine bay. There might be some advantage to running an intank lift pump as my external pump is always noisy. Pumps run quieter with a bit of positive pressure on the inlet. I've been meaning to convert mine to intake for years.