QUESTION ID: 3264

QUESTION:
Hello Everyone, I recently joined E30 club after few years of wanting one. I hope it meets my expectations once it is all repaired and ready for daily driving status. I recently picked up another fan clutch with 9 blades (Its from E30 325i). I confirmed that clutch are the same between M10 and M20 except for fan blades. Would that 9 blade fan over cool my M10 motor once the clutch locks up or should I use my original 8 blade fan that came off my M10? I think previous owner hacked up 8 blade (possibly got damaged one time and needed other blades to match to balance out rotations?).

ANSWER 1 (id: 3264_1):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy 9 blades will freeze the coolant in the radiator and blow up your engine Not sure if it is a sarcastic post. I probably end up swapping the fan clutch out and use proper fan blades.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3264_2):
Originally posted by DeafM5 Not sure if it is a sarcastic post. I probably end up swapping the fan clutch out and use proper fan blades. I'm just messing with you, man. I'm not 100% but I think you're fine to use either one. Hopeful someone will chime in. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3264_3):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy I'm just messing with you, man. I'm not 100% but I think you're fine to use either one. Hopeful someone will chime in. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Ah alright. I think I should be ok using 9 blades. Previous owner put in 71* thermostat so I will be replacing that thermostat with new 80* thermostat once I get every cooling system components squared away.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3264_4):
If it fits I suspect that you will be fine with the different fan. I do hope it meets your expectations for a daily, and it's always good to see someone new to E30s actually doing it properly by fixing what needs fixing before thinking power adders.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3264_5):
You should be alright, whatever you do, don't run the messed up fan, i made that mistake when my original orange 9 blade jettisoned a blade. ruined my water pump real quick

ANSWER 6 (id: 3264_6):
Originally posted by roguetoaster If it fits I suspect that you will be fine with the different fan. I do hope it meets your expectations for a daily, and it's always good to see someone new to E30s actually doing it properly by fixing what needs fixing before thinking power adders. I got other bmws to enjoy with power. I do love my E39 M5 with muffler delete. I also like to retain factory look or OEM+ looks when I can. Originally posted by yngtmr You should be alright, whatever you do, don't run the messed up fan, i made that mistake when my original orange 9 blade jettisoned a blade. ruined my water pump real quick ' Noted.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3264_7):
Looks like my new to me fan blades are too big. Stock blades are 400mm and 325i blades are 420mm. My shroud isnt big enough to clear unless I can hack my fan blade properly? I am going to try to find blades today or swap the fan clutch.