QUESTION ID: 1062

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, I'm having my E30 M3 resprayed and I'm curious as to what parts/wear items should be replaced while this is happening? Seals, gaskets Etc Etc. Thanks Guys

ANSWER 1 (id: 1062_3):
If i were going to do just a respray removing as little as possible I would 1) not fool with engine bay, it's a deep rabbits hole and can't be done well without removing EVERYTHING 2) remove everything from the doors. Glass, handles, rubber, trim, etc. remove all trim, remove rear windows, remove door sills and every bit of rubber weather stripping from the car remove lights, aerial, spoiler, trunk release, side view mirrors, roundels, badging, remove bumpers and all grilles, supports, foam, gaskets, etc Remove the thin metal piece that runs below the front grilles and above the bumper I would also get new VIN tags (see my thread) because to avoid visible paint lines the jambs and valleys where panels meet will need to be sprayed (for example, running on either side of the hood). I documented all of my originals, removed them, ordered new ones, reapplied when respray was done. Might have some effect on value but I documented everything and if you spray over them or try to tape them off you risk creating a weak point in the paint/clear that can chip later I wouldn't say the front and rear windshields are "must remove" items, but all the trim and gaskets around them are. Cleaner if you do but be careful I think the front is NLA Find any rust spots and deal with them, same for dents. Be relentless about making sure the thing is properly taped off (wheel wells, engine bay, etc). Overspray is an absolute nightmare - it can get into almost anywhere. I've cleaned overspray off parts that I didn't know existed until I stripped the thing down That's what I would do with the car, but the most important thing I would do is find the absolute best shop in the area. I have so many friends who "know a guy" who paints cars and can give me a great deal. Unfortunately some of my friends have ended up paying for two mediocre paint jobs from "a guy", spending more than one top shelf job would have cost. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk