QUESTION ID: 1721

QUESTION:
Hey Guys, I’ve got an issue with my Garagistic supreme shifter and I am hoping to see if anyone else else has encountered this issue. running all new bushings, new bitch clip, new Garagistic selector joint, dssr (homemade). I’ve checked and everything is tight. But if everything were tight I’d imagine it would be a vibration, due to being a solid assembly, not a rattle like it is. I’ve also pulled the shifter out and tightened/used lock tight on the shifter and the bug nuts, to ensure they aren’t rattling. thanks, Nick.

ANSWER 1 (id: 1721_1):
I have their chassis mounted shifter and DSSR with solid trans and engine mounts. It vibrates. But it doesn't bother me I knew this was going to happen

ANSWER 2 (id: 1721_2):
Originally posted by It's Soda Not Pop Is this a chassis mounted shifter? And if it is and you have solid trans mounts, then there will be some rattling and/or vibrations. Getrag's rattle. Thanks for the reply! Not chassis mounted, just they’re short “supreme shifter”, and I’m running oem bushings, replaced just last week.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1721_4):
After watching your video I'm not sure what causing your rattling. My car vibrates but it doesn't rattle the shifter. I mean my tranny rattles in neutral but that's common. Maybe your carrier bushing is shot if you didn't change it. Or if you did change it to a firmer one it could cause some NVH issues. Are the engine mounts new as well?

ANSWER 4 (id: 1721_6):
Originally posted by Shangsta Did you ever get this figured out. I also am in the same position and it’s really annoying What bushing and/or mounts have you changed? If everything but the shifter is old, then you should probably look into a refresh. All of my stuff is hard mounted. All delrin or solid. I have NVH but no rattling. Getrag's kind of rattle anyway (they are known for it). I recently replaced my clutch and flywheel along with going standalone (I raised my idle to 900). My transmission no longer rattles as harsh as it used to after doing the things I just mentioned.