QUESTION ID: 3314

QUESTION:
Saw one of these, somewhere around a '79 Scirocco, with the four round headlights, and it made me want to go to the dark side. Something about those angles.. Also I've been reading a lot on VR6 motors and I kinda want one. Dual cams but one head gasket? It's quirky and it makes sense! I don't know what's gotten into me lately. I used to hate VW's but one of these motors swapped into an old hatchback would be pretty cool. Also, to add insult to injury, I kinda miss the way a FWD car handles. First world problems, amirite?

ANSWER 1 (id: 3314_0):
Originally posted by Das Delfin Saw one of these, somewhere around a '79 Scirocco, with the four round headlights, and it made me want to go to the dark side. Something about those angles.. Also I've been reading a lot on VR6 motors and I kinda want one. Dual cams but one head gasket? It's quirky and it makes sense! I don't know what's gotten into me lately. I used to hate VW's but one of these motors swapped into an old hatchback would be pretty cool. Also, to add insult to injury, I kinda miss the way a FWD car handles. First world problems, amirite? Go for it! There's no point in hating different brands. Cool cars are cool cars, period.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3314_10):
The first gen Sciroccos are great looking but there's no way I would put a VR6 in there. I think the 16v MKII GTI engine would be great in this thing.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3314_11):
Get a Passat 16V 2.0L vs 1.8L or heck even a newer TDi would make one rip. VR6 is too much weight on the front cross member and they need strengthening.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3314_12):
^^ Agree with these last two - it's a very light car, and not much weight in the back end. I loved the looks of them. Did they rust away? You don't see them around. Mine looked a lot like this.... With these wheels....

ANSWER 5 (id: 3314_13):
Rust....unless it was PNW or dry climate. Super simple to work on much like any E30, but parts started to dry up and not many in the junkyards these days equal tough keeping one on the road, unless you have a parts car.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3314_2):
Originally posted by AndrewBird How someone likes the way a FWD car handles is beyond me. I am with this guy. If Corrados were RWD I would bought one a long time ago.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3314_3):
Adding a VR6 destroys any sorta handling these have. The 60/40 split and unequal half shafts equal one wheel tire fires. Had a few back in the day, best way to fix it is Quaife. I have a photo or two of mine somewhere buried in photobucket but that site is so shitty I can't be bothered. Zeemz A few guys modified their Corrado's back in the Late 90's and early 00's to AWD via using Canadian Passat G40 Synchro drive trains. It was not that difficult as most of the mounting points were there.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3314_5):
Yeah the two I saw were very cool and were detailed about the build on vwvortex, might have to dig hard to find data these days. Here's a MK 1 awd conversion

ANSWER 9 (id: 3314_7):
Saw a few of the newer versions in Germany last week. Look pretty decent, but it's practically a Golf in terms of performance. OP why not just get an old MK1 GTI/Rabbit? Very similar dimensions/lines and equivalent powertrain options. Parts are also easier to source as they made more of them than the Scirocco

ANSWER 10 (id: 3314_8):
Originally posted by Das Delfin Saw one of these, somewhere around a '79 Scirocco, with the four round headlights, and it made me want to go to the dark side. Something about those angles.. I had a '79 very similar to this. Giugiaro design, very nice shape. It did not have the horsepowers - it's a Rabbit underneath. It was stolen twice.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3314_9):
If your gonna get a MK 1 Scirocco the 81 S is the most desirable in my oipinion, facelifted front end, plastic bumpers nicer airdam and revised interior. Also cam with 1.6L herron head engine that loved to rev.