QUESTION ID: 3503

QUESTION:
http://kamotorsperformance.com/bolt-on-m20-turbo-kit/ Does anyone have experience/ knowledge of this kit I trust its a quality kit, But at $3400(kit+megasquirt) is no small amount of money for me. Should I try and do a budget build or just save up and buy this and then get it tuned? I have searched all the e30 forums there are and cant find any info on this. This is the budget kit Kameron also sells: http://kamotorsperformance.com/budge...nal-wastegate/

ANSWER 1 (id: 3503_1):
Originally posted by bangn you do know that guys an active member on here yeh? Check out his build thread. Videos as well yea Ive seen all his videos an youtube and here, just wanted to see if anyone has actually bought one of the kits and if they like it. I would definitely buy one of his kits before I buy anyone else's kit

ANSWER 2 (id: 3503_2):
Originally posted by WORLDCITIZEN yea Ive seen all his videos an youtube and here, just wanted to see if anyone has actually bought one of the kits and if they like it. I would definitely buy one of his kits before I buy anyone else's kit Lots of people have, rather than starting a new thread, I'd contact those who've commented on Kamotors build thred. Pm them directly, I'm sure they'd be happy to give you advise. It's a well thought out kit. I've personally rode in it and can tell you it's amazing. But you really should be asking Kam directly. Good luck and welcome!!

ANSWER 3 (id: 3503_3):
I've looked into the budget kit and yes there isn't a lot of info out there on it, but I PM'd Kam and he cleared things up. Just PM him, he's really helpful.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3503_4):
Originally posted by e30_world Lots of people have, rather than starting a new thread, I'd contact those who've commented on Kamotors build thred. Pm them directly, I'm sure they'd be happy to give you advise. It's a well thought out kit. I've personally rode in it and can tell you it's amazing. But you really should be asking Kam directly. Good luck and welcome!! Originally posted by stonea I've looked into the budget kit and yes there isn't a lot of info out there on it, but I PM'd Kam and he cleared things up. Just PM him, he's really helpful. Thanks guys! that does help to know there is info out there I plan on pming him