QUESTION ID: 469

QUESTION:
I'm looking for recommendations for aftermarket 5.25 drivers (not coax) that are a confirmed drop in fit in the front kickpanels, handle at least 50W and are responsive down to 50Hz or lower. Thanks!​

ANSWER 1 (id: 469_1):
Thanks. So guess most of you are then basically screwing into the metal to fasten speakers that don't have pig ears for mounting? Seeing your spacers also reminds me that I recently noticed how much the bass response of the Nokias improved when I mounted the kick panel cover while the speaker was playing. I couldn't bbelieve how much of a difference it made. Perhaps this is another reason Luke always recommended to stick with the Premium speakers but what I've decided to try now is this: I have an E38 and the mid woofers in the doors happen to be exactly the same size as the Premium Nokias. I got my hands on a pair of Bavsound stage one mids for an E38 and will try one in direct comparison to the Nokia by panning the sound left and right. I don't know if this will yield an improvement since the Bavsound speakers are supposedly optimized for stock amps and I'm driving my E30 setup with a 5ch 1000w Mbquart but will report back here with results. Would still welcome other drop in fit recommendations that can use the stock mounting holes

ANSWER 2 (id: 469_2):
OK, so here are a couple of pictures of the Bavsound Stage 1 mids for E38 mounted and side by side with the OEM Nokias. They're a direct fit. SQ is very good but not audibly better than the Nokias even at higher SPL. (Signal is through a CDT audio 2-way crossover fed by 75W RMS A/B amplification). Anyway, these still make a very good direct fit replacement for when we run out of healthy OEM premium drivers. Out of the box, the bass output is slightly reduced vs the Nokias but I don't attribute that to the driver. It's likely more due to the lack of the rubber spacer rings the OEMs come with that help seal the cone against the rockwool on the kickpanel cover. For best results, perhaps one could 3d print or buy a matching 1/4" or 3/8"s thick spacer ring, glued it on call it a day. Attached Files