QUESTION ID: 3373

QUESTION:
Finally.. "FREE SHIPPING! NO MINIMUM. NO KIDDING" according to them. However, I have problem loading when try to check out..

ANSWER 1 (id: 3373_0):
If true, this might make me go back to ECS after giving up with their high (relatively and as an order total) shipping costs and sometimes very slow order processing prior to shipment.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3373_10):
hehe I tried order some clips that were a $1.04 but no dice. Shipping was like $9 added to the bill but still, everything else is pretty much good to go. Might just replace my roundel to get the screws/clips. That seems to work. The free shipping ploy was in effect July 4th but then they removed the promotion.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3373_12):
Just ordered 2 things,yesterday, total was $2.70 (Im a dick I know) and shipping was free. They will arrive tomorrow. I use them a literal sh*t ton for my Audi parts and have had orders shipped on the same day as ordered and I have even had items delivered the next day. Only had 1 problem and it was USPS's fault and they were going to send out a new order the next day but USPS found the package and delivered it and told them to cancel the replacement shipment.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3373_3):
I hate ecs. Why does it take 3 days to pull a part from a warehouse when blunt can have it drop shipped from a warehouse in cali and to my door step before them guys even ship my stuff.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3373_4):
Yeah...ECS really drags their feet in "processing" before shipping. Bavauto gets the stuff out quicker, but it takes ages to ship from the New Hampshire hinterlands to California. For me the best service seems to be Pelican Parts. They have a warehouse in South San Francisco and I get my stuff in 2 days.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3373_5):
I use ECS a fair bit purely due to the awesome photo database of each part, even electrical pins and connectors. It's super useful and a fantastic resource. I haven't had an issue with their shipping speed. Free is great news!

ANSWER 7 (id: 3373_7):
Just ordered a head gasket kit along with a few other things from them a few days ago. Called them yesterday about a part that was on back order and they got me one (a different brand) that was in stock and shipped it out same day. So maybe theyve got their shit together.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3373_9):
Originally posted by MF DOOM Just ordered a head gasket kit along with a few other things from them a few days ago. Called them yesterday about a part that was on back order and they got me one (a different brand) that was in stock and shipped it out same day. So maybe theyve got their shit together. My package just arrived. Thats an A in my book.