QUESTION ID: 1336

QUESTION:
I just picked up a 91 E30 vert. I tried manually opening the top and it seems to keep getting hung up on the edge of the backseats. I can't seem to figure out why. I've watched several YT videos and still can't figure it out. Is there a step I'm missing?

ANSWER 1 (id: 1336_0):
Assume you have a power top you're trying to manually operate? Or... A full manual top (power top that has a broken motor and been converted to a manual)

ANSWER 2 (id: 1336_2):
Originally posted by Tzantushka Assume you have a power top you're trying to manually operate? Or... A full manual top (power top that has a broken motor and been converted to a manual) Originally posted by flyboyx or....power top is broken and has not been converted to manual. Yep, it's a power top that I just converted to manual. I made sure the 2 rods were taken out and all motors disconnected.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1336_3):
Originally posted by spyder918 Yep, it's a power top that I just converted to manual. I made sure the 2 rods were taken out and all motors disconnected. Ah, I'd say your 2x tension straps that run the longitudinal length of the top are stuffed. Hard to explain, but sounds like you have a section of the roof (between the lateral support bows) that keeps bending forward (and getting caught on the rear seat). You'll need to push/tuck that roof material back towards the rear of the car. This video best explains it... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXWk0a2-D7o

ANSWER 4 (id: 1336_4):
That was it!! Thank you!! Damn I would’ve never figured that out! So much gratitude and appreciation for you guys and this forum..I’ve learned so much! [/B] Originally posted by Tzantushka Ah, I'd say your 2x tension straps that run the longitudinal length of the top are stuffed. Hard to explain, but sounds like you have a section of the roof (between the lateral support bows) that keeps bending forward (and getting caught on the rear seat). You'll need to push/tuck that roof material back towards the rear of the car. This video best explains it... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXWk0a2-D7o