QUESTION ID: 115

QUESTION:
On my '90 325i, I've noticed that the sunroof crank only makes the audible "click" when fully open or when vented up. Its hard to tell when its closed because it doesn't make the click when the sunroof reaches the closed position. I used the link below to remove the crank assembly and re-sync it. https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-technical-forums/appearance-cosmetic/interior/141542-manual-moonroof-adjustment However, after following these instructions, it still doesn't seem right. It now clicks in the closed position and fully open but not in the vent position. I removed the crank assembly and spun it and it clicks every 18 turns. I guess my question is, should it make the click in all 3 positions (closed, open, and vent)?

ANSWER 1 (id: 115_0):
i'll be watching this and have nothing to add other than when I first got my car the sunroof crank clicked for all 3 positions. Now mine is way out of sync and doesn't click at any position.

ANSWER 2 (id: 115_1):
Originally posted by glnr13 i'll be watching this and have nothing to add other than when I first got my car the sunroof crank clicked for all 3 positions. Now mine is way out of sync and doesn't click at any position. Well that's a bummer. I may need a new sunroof gear/transmission if that's the case.

ANSWER 3 (id: 115_2):
Originally posted by Codym42 Well that's a bummer. I may need a new sunroof gear/transmission if that's the case. did you ever figured it out? assembling the car back and ran into the same issue

ANSWER 4 (id: 115_3):
Originally posted by Codym42 On my '90 325i, I've noticed that the sunroof crank only makes the audible "click" when fully open or when vented up. Its hard to tell when its closed because it doesn't make the click when the sunroof reaches the closed position. I used the link below to remove the crank assembly and re-sync it. https://www.r3vlimited.com/board/forum/e30-technical-forums/appearance-cosmetic/interior/141542-manual-moonroof-adjustment However, after following these instructions, it still doesn't seem right. It now clicks in the closed position and fully open but not in the vent position. I removed the crank assembly and spun it and it clicks every 18 turns. I guess my question is, should it make the click in all 3 positions (closed, open, and vent)? can someone please confirm if it's supposed to click in all 3 positions or only 2? I synced mine and the handle only clicks in fully open and closed position. Not when in UP/Vent position. Anyone?