QUESTION ID: 2893

QUESTION:
just making sure this is correct, the stock plastic splashguard on an IS under the lip comes in three pieces right? I have a big panel of plastic and one smaller panel of plastic screwed under my lip, but there isn't any piece on the drivers side. I've tried researching this, but all i keep getting is links to aftermarket metal splashguards. Any idea where I can buy my missing piece, if in fact, I am missing a piece? --sent from my igloo via carrier penguin

ANSWER 1 (id: 2893_0):
It sounds like you are talking about an early model. If so, then yes it is three pieces. If I recall correctly those parts are NLA though (Someone please correct me if I am mistaken) so your best bet would be a junkyard.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2893_1):
Originally posted by YosemiteSam It sounds like you are talking about an early model. If so, then yes it is three pieces. If I recall correctly those parts are NLA though (Someone please correct me if I am mistaken) so your best bet would be a junkyard. Correct on the early model ones although op has a late model in his sig. I have 3 sets for my car. Any time they come up for sale I buy them. I thought the late models were 3 piece as well... The backs of the brake ducts are separate aren't they?

ANSWER 3 (id: 2893_2):
Originally posted by delatlanta1281 Correct on the early model ones although op has a late model in his sig. I have 3 sets for my car. Any time they come up for sale I buy them. I thought the late models were 3 piece as well... The backs of the brake ducts are separate aren't they? Wait, OP has a sig? I can't see anything... Anyway, yes, I suppose there are those pieces in a late model, but most people call them fender liners in my experience, where as the early model actually has three pieces that are under the car parallel to the road.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2893_3):
Three piece OE splash guard? Originally posted by YosemiteSam Wait, OP has a sig? I can't see anything... Anyway, yes, I suppose there are those pieces in a late model, but most people call them fender liners in my experience, where as the early model actually has three pieces that are under the car parallel to the road. Yeah, it's an 87, but I do have the three pieces.... missing the one on the drivers side (USA) --sent from my igloo via carrier penguin

ANSWER 5 (id: 2893_5):
Originally posted by brutus i have a splashguards avail,, , preface & facelifts, pls pm exactly to which bit, thanx Yeah................ This thread is from 2014..................