QUESTION ID: 3012

QUESTION:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p3TPPGb1X8A What the fuck.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3012_3):
Originally posted by ak- He's an e30 enthusiast, so he knows the chassis well, and claimed the car was rotted. Still lol. I don't really care that he's ruining it. Just such a ridiculous idea haha. Originally posted by AwakenNoMore Rusty and convertible, not mad in the slightest. I quite enjoy his channel. His other E30 is quite clean. Oh, I didn't know he had another one. I agree, he definitely puts out great content. Originally posted by Aleman Why keep all the electrical stuff if you're not going to try to drive it? The goal is to have it still drivable.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3012_4):
Ok so right I did this accidentally in 1993 after getting back from Gulf War 1 and an extra deployment of a year back to the shit hole. I came back to my roomie had stolen my check book and wrote checks out to himself....dumbass. The sent him to the navy brig in Philly and I bought his old 70 dodge dart from his GF an cut the roof off at the auto hobby shop with shears. three weeks later on leave in OC MD during a tropic storm that had been a hurricane it rained I used to put a bag over the top to protect it at night well drunk and came home from the purple moose with some chick I didnt care the thing filled up with water and broke in half under the a pillar as that was the most stressed part of the car. Was awesome to come out to see the shit box broke in half. I left it in the hotel parking lot and walked away. Great to be a kid.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3012_8):
Hopped on to see if anyone else was watching this! I think it is awesome! I cannot believe people are upset over a rotted vert. "[–]t12totalxyzb00320i Touring ´89 1 point 4 days ago A fucking 325i ruined by an idiot with a welder and a YouTube channel. Great. Just what I needed. Sport seats go for 500-1200€ here, he just drowns them. Convertibles are expensive, he just floods it. Fuck you, whoever that waffleswaffleswaffleswaffles is, fuck you. Could at least have taken a flood car. But no, let's take a 325i convertible, which costs at least 6000€, in devastated condition, for this shitty video. I'm mad. I'm genuinely pissed off, this ruined my evening." I think he would HATE to see what I did to e30s over the years, I know I am personally sent 4 325is to the junk yard just to clear room.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3012_9):
Vert owners getting all butthurt over the fact that convertible E30s are so crap they aren't really worth much, even to a guy who likes E30s (Colin) potstir