QUESTION ID: 2919

QUESTION:
So for a little background info I just purchased two 84' 318i's. The black one has a good body, 73k miles and an automatic transmission. The second is red and has a rotted body, 151k miles, and a manual transmission. Both will need some work to get running. I want to have the manual in the black car but I'm trying to decide if it would be better to swap the motor and trans from red to black, or just the trans and keep the lower mileage motor in the black. Either way would it then be easier to swap wire harness and such, rather than all the splicing needed to make the manual swap? Any advice or experience would be greatly appreciated.

ANSWER 1 (id: 2919_0):
The 84 body is a better platform, now as far as the drivetrain, the later model is a better option and will be a great doner car. You can literally do yourself a favor and upgrade to all disk brakes, better suspension options and differential as well. Read up, the red one is done if cancer has already gotten to it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2919_4):
Id just yank the manual trans out and put it in the black car. Dont need to mess with wiring all that much and a g260 isnt that heavy. Just make sure you have a second pair of hands. Only thing that'll really suck is the bellhousing bolts so make sure you have extensions and wobble attachments.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2919_5):
Thanks for the replies guys. Sounds like just swapping the manual trans will be easier provided I can get the black car running good. Its been about 10 years since I had my e21 so I very eager to get behind the wheel of a classic bimmer again.

ANSWER 4 (id: 2919_6):
Originally posted by BanickiJ Im not sure where you are getting the later platform from. They are both 84 318i. The only differences are miles, drivetrain, and body condition. Miss read the post Originally posted by 2mAn I would do whatever is easier it regards to swapping. Might be easier to swap the motor and trans together. +1 Originally posted by glnr13 You're going to want rear discs. Start hunting now. Here, I made a handy chart for you: Also, disregard IRON-E. He appears to be drunk today. Si-moan.....