QUESTION ID: 3159

QUESTION:
Hello R3Vlimited! Friends call me Nar, I decided to build a BMW after my highly modified, turbocharged track-prepped Miata kept blowing engines. Originally I was shopping for an E30 but ended up with an 88 Dinan E28 535i. (Build thread for that is here: http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/show...50#post4758650) I am a longtime driving enthusiast. Thus far I've owned 33 cars (5 of which were german-made). Presently I am the shop manager of a small dyno-tuning/custom fabrication/automotive performance shop. The owner drives an E46 and one of the tech's (the one who referred me here) has a soon-to-be turbo'd E30. I also have a second job as a smog tech. Our shop primarily works on Japanese imports but we'd like to shift our focus into euro cars. I am eager to glean more knowledge from this forum and grateful for any tips and advice about making a worthy track car out of my E28. (feel free to insert snarky remarks about how E28's are not a track worthy car to begin with ) I am a former HPDE track instructor, Auto-X & Rally-X competitor, drifting judge/coach and SCCA pit crew member.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3159_0):
Welcome Nar. The first rule of r3v is that you will forever be a noob until you post a pic of your GF.... or your favorite 3 cars* *this exemption comes in when you have exceeded 18 cars, as its assumed you are over 18 years old.** **but seriously, we want to see pics of your GF, not your miata

ANSWER 2 (id: 3159_11):
Originally posted by MrBurgundy Was that the weirdest boner you ever had? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk Can't be as weird as the one he got looking at your avatar

ANSWER 3 (id: 3159_3):
Nars favorite 3 cars. Originally posted by 2mAn Welcome Nar. The first rule of r3v is that you will forever be a noob until you post a pic of your GF.... or your favorite 3 cars* *this exemption comes in when you have exceeded 18 cars, as its assumed you are over 18 years old.** **but seriously, we want to see pics of your GF, not your miata In-between gf's right now... so my 3 favorite cars eh... hmm... probably have to settle on these. 1979 Nissan 280 ZX-R (One of only 2000 built). The rear whale-tail wing produced 280+ lbs of downforce @ 80+ mph. Nissan needed to homologate the wing they designed for Paul Newmans GTU racing car on at least 2000 production models. Should never have sold this... but I wanted to get into RX7's. 1977 Mazda RX3-SP SCCA Pro Rally car. Built and raced primarily in the 80's I restored it, tuned up a 12A bridgeport fed with Weber DCOE 48's and went Rally-X racing with it. Was not competitive (not enough torque for slow corners) but it was a LOT of fun. Ended up trying to de-rally tune it for tarmac/track racing and flipped it during a drifting competition. 1979 Mazda GLC 'Sport'. RWD, swapped to 12A rotary fed by a Racing Beat Holley 4 barrel. Quick little bastard. Lots of custom work went into this one, lots of searching for rare as fuck parts. Sold it way too cheap to pay for my smog technician license.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3159_4):
Originally posted by laidback93 Hey Nar, welcome to the board. I'm a told noob as well. I'd love to come check out your shop. I work in Pleasanton. Sure by all means, it's VL Motorsports ( www.vlmotorsports.com ) Presently we are finishing up a turbocharged RX8, a highly modified custom turbo Yaris, an SR20 turbo swapped AE86, an SR20 turbo swapped Infiniti G20 and an SR20 turbo swapped 240sx.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3159_5):
Originally posted by scarsofcarma In-between gf's right now... so my 3 favorite cars eh... hmm... probably have to settle on these. Haha yes you will be just fine here, though I still want to see a pic of an Ex now. We need to know if your into the chubby ones, but guessing by your vehicle selection I'm guessing tiny Asian girls rather than the fatties lol

ANSWER 6 (id: 3159_6):
Originally posted by 2mAn Haha yes you will be just fine here, though I still want to see a pic of an Ex now. We need to know if your into the chubby ones, but guessing by your vehicle selection I'm guessing tiny Asian girls rather than the fatties lol Well I've only only had 2 asian gf's actually... one was Filipino and the other Japanese. The Filipino one was religious and dragged me to this private bible-study group. They told me they believed god granted them the ability to see the future and into other people's hearts. We all held hands and sat around a table... then the chick next to me started rubbing my earlobe and speaking in a trance about how she saw me floating in an ocean with my head barely above water. She said god was saying I was very precious and needed guidance. It was a pretty freaky experience; especially since the one I was sleeping with wasn't the one rubbing my earlobe. The Japanese girl is a whole other story. I have too many stories about terrible ex's.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3159_7):
Originally posted by scarsofcarma We all held hands and sat around a table... then the chick next to me started rubbing my earlobe and speaking in a trance Was that the weirdest boner you ever had? Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk