QUESTION ID: 3129

QUESTION:
Long story short, seen an e30 that almost met my expectations to purchase,but it needs work, has rust, interier is bad. Should i keep looking? or try to make a deal? My biggest issue is im tryin to avoid doin body or paint work.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3129_0):
Do you have pictures of how bad it actually is? To put it nicely, an E30 has been my dream car for quite a long while... stuff that I know can atleast be replaced I look completely past. Take for example... your driver's side fender is completely dented (like mine is) KNOWING that I can replace it made it so much easier for me to buy. How bad is the rust? Once again, interior can always be replace (I've got a full set of GREAT condition Tan interior if needed ;)) Also if it's the one you want, or one you think you can find yourself driving... use those weak points in negotiation! Hope this helps you out

ANSWER 2 (id: 3129_1):
Originally posted by GodOfChugs Do you have pictures of how bad it actually is? To put it nicely, an E30 has been my dream car for quite a long while... stuff that I know can atleast be replaced I look completely past. Take for example... your driver's side fender is completely dented (like mine is) KNOWING that I can replace it made it so much easier for me to buy. How bad is the rust? Once again, interior can always be replace (I've got a full set of GREAT condition Tan interior if needed ;)) Also if it's the one you want, or one you think you can find yourself driving... use those weak points in negotiation! Hope this helps you out the rust spots r not that bad, small chips here and there all over the body, clear coat on paint is bad, but thats alot of damn body work itself there.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3129_10):
Originally posted by E30 Wagen How bad exactly is the rust? I'm assuming you're in Ventura, CA? You haven't seen rust or body issues until you've lived in the rust belt. Around here if something only has a little surface rust from rock chips but no holes anywhere, that's an instant buy for me regardless of paint condition or interior. Getting a simple paint job, replacing an engine, or replacing an interior is practically child's play compared to be forced to completely strip sections of a car down to bare metal in order to cut out the rust and weld in new bits. It's just an uphill battle. there not so bad, but repairing rust, paying for a paint job, replacing interier, is just too much you know? in that case if i need to do all this i can just buy a junkyard motor, a shell, and new interier, paint for as well as near the same price id be spending to fix this.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3129_11):
Originally posted by Mk7 E30 I asked for opinions. Perhaps if you understand english you wouldnt tell me that I answered my own question because I asked what other's think or would do. What's with this recent infusion of noobs with 'tudes?

ANSWER 5 (id: 3129_13):
Originally posted by agent What's with this recent infusion of noobs with 'tudes? Originally posted by Mk7 E30 Long story short, seen an e30 . i seen dat mang i tryna cop a e30 and be liek coo mang cuz dey say i suckin dicks nd i gotta let em kno just 1 or 2 mang ya kno wut i men i not full gay just on tha side ya fel me

ANSWER 6 (id: 3129_2):
Originally posted by Mk7 E30 the rust spots r not that bad, small chips here and there all over the body, clear coat on paint is bad, but thats alot of damn body work itself there. Sounds like a good start to me :) What are your plans for this car if you don't mind me asking? Daily, weekend car? Project car (turbo, track, etc)

ANSWER 7 (id: 3129_3):
Originally posted by GodOfChugs Sounds like a good start to me :) What are your plans for this car if you don't mind me asking? Daily, weekend car? Project car (turbo, track, etc) I have a brand new car that I daily, its an awesome car. But I still want another damn e30. My plans are that it will be my first stickshift car, Weekend pleasure ride. I will try to restore it as much as i can.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3129_4):
Originally posted by Mk7 E30 I have a brand new car that I daily, its an awesome car. But I still want another damn e30. My plans are that it will be my first stickshift car, Weekend pleasure ride. I will try to restore it as much as i can. In my personal opinion I'd say if everything else runs fine and the asking price is already pretty decent, I'd grab it. Worst case, you end up having the car re-painted or even wrapped (if just a temporary thing) and you'd be solid!

ANSWER 9 (id: 3129_5):
Originally posted by GodOfChugs In my personal opinion I'd say if everything else runs fine and the asking price is already pretty decent, I'd grab it. Worst case, you end up having the car re-painted or even wrapped (if just a temporary thing) and you'd be solid! At the moment I think I am just going to save up more and get cleanest e30 i can find.

ANSWER 10 (id: 3129_6):
.noisiced a ekam uoy pleh ot su wolla ot noitamrofni lautca su evig ro dnim nwo ruoy pu ekam tsuj ,SFF ?uoy rof noitseuq siht rewsna ew nac woH ^ OP, you answered your own question, and then answered your own question again. Good job.

ANSWER 11 (id: 3129_7):
Originally posted by roguetoaster .noisiced a ekam uoy pleh ot su wolla ot noitamrofni lautca su evig ro dnim nwo ruoy pu ekam tsuj ,SFF ?uoy rof noitseuq siht rewsna ew nac woH ^ OP, you answered your own question, and then answered your own question again. Good job. I asked for opinions. Perhaps if you understand english you wouldnt tell me that I answered my own question because I asked what other's think or would do.

ANSWER 12 (id: 3129_8):
If you only understood hsilgnE you'd have understood what I said, but noooo that'd be too difficult. Also, it's silly to criticize someone for not understanding English when you clearly have a limited grasp on it yourself. I get that you may want other people to chime in, but really, why bother in a case like this?

ANSWER 13 (id: 3129_9):
Originally posted by Mk7 E30 the rust spots r not that bad, small chips here and there all over the body, clear coat on paint is bad, but thats alot of damn body work itself there. How bad exactly is the rust? I'm assuming you're in Ventura, CA? You haven't seen rust or body issues until you've lived in the rust belt. Around here if something only has a little surface rust from rock chips but no holes anywhere, that's an instant buy for me regardless of paint condition or interior. Getting a simple paint job, replacing an engine, or replacing an interior is practically child's play compared to be forced to completely strip sections of a car down to bare metal in order to cut out the rust and weld in new bits. It's just an uphill battle.