QUESTION ID: 1793

QUESTION:
I recently bought a 1991 318is that has some serious rust issues in the battery box and the other side on the end of the quarter panel. Took some metal from a parts car but the rust was holding hands to keep the basic shape under the rustproofing. Both South Carolina cars. I looked for replacement metal and found some on eBay and other places, but basically only one half of the battery box. Apparently, the battery box has a seam at the bottom and the vendors only sell up to that seam. Checked out ValcasGarage which showed both sides of the box but they are in Lithuania. I generally don't like to buy from overseas due to all the scams, especially on Facebook. Thought I'd try since they had both parts/pieces to the battery box. I was thinking to send the metal to my brother in Germany who is receiving a number of parts for me from their small sales eBay site, but didn't want to overwhelm him. Bottom line...ordered on 11 March received confirmation. Had tracking on 13 March and was able to follow progress through Lithuania with a stop in Vilnius. I'm thinking customs. Several days later, tracking picks up in the US. Received the package today, 28 March. Both pieces received with no issues. I did a search but saw no definite confirmation that someone else had ordered any parts. They have a good website and I believe shipping was reasonable considering the international aspects. Pricing was cheaper than the eBay vendors but don't forget shipping!

ANSWER 1 (id: 1793_2):
I think I have some fender bottoms and front corner "jack points" in a box from a joint order with a friend a few years ago. The parts seemed nice enough when I inspected them.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1793_4):
Depends on what you buy. Some of the parts are made of thinner gauge steel than OE, but this isn't mentioned. I don't like that, especially on a part like a seat belt anchor point. Other details can being annoying, like panels with the holes for body drain plugs not being the correct shape. Some of the panels are good value and well made, but ask questions and compare.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1793_5):
I ordered a battery tray from them back in 2022, arrived just fine and fit well enough for the price. No idea whether the tray was the same gauge steel or not (didn't think to check that), but it was solid when fitted & certainly a lot more solid than the old rusted out tray.