QUESTION ID: 244

QUESTION:
I'm chasing down a clunk/pop sound coming from my left front end. The sound is heard when I accelerate from a stop and/or turn left. It's intermittent, and it's only one clunk or pop, not repeated. Until I start/stop or turn again, and then I'll usually hear it again. I think I also heard it when going over a bumpy part of the road, but my car is a convertible so it was hard to hear if it was exactly the same noise. I think it was. I've already replaced worn out control arm bushings and complete tie rods on both sides. Took care of some other knocks and noises but I still hear this one on the left side. Car is an 87 325i convertible. 57,000 miles. What should I look into next?

ANSWER 1 (id: 244_0):
A similar thing happened to me and it was the U-shaped sway bar bracket that attaches to the front control arms. Mine seemed tight, but in certain situations it would rotate and the corner of the bracket would hit the lip of the control arm. Torque them down and see if the clunk goes away.

ANSWER 2 (id: 244_1):
This happens with my coupe too occasionally, on certain turns... Even with completely new front arms, CABs, tie rods, cartridges, mounts, sway bushings/links. I've pretty much given up on it, figuring it's maybe something weird with my rack or the front springs somehow shifting or whatever. I'll be interested to see if you figure it out! Seems like a niche problem Sent from my moto g(6) using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 244_2):
I torqued down the sway bar bushing bracket and unfortunately it didn't fix the problem. The popping sound seems to happen when I turn left, but it also happens when I'm driving straight. If I'm driving slowly and hit the gas it will often pop, or if I hit the brakes it will also pop. It also pops going over small bumps/cracks in the road, but NOT when going over large bumps/speed bumps. Turning left seems to cause the sound but turning isn't the reason for the sound because it also happens under these other conditions...if that makes sense. Could it be the actual bushing in the sway bar? They seem fine visually. Engine mount?

ANSWER 4 (id: 244_3):
Originally posted by rmr2122 I torqued down the sway bar bushing bracket and unfortunately it didn't fix the problem. The popping sound seems to happen when I turn left, but it also happens when I'm driving straight. If I'm driving slowly and hit the gas it will often pop, or if I hit the brakes it will also pop. It also pops going over small bumps/cracks in the road, but NOT when going over large bumps/speed bumps. Turning left seems to cause the sound but turning isn't the reason for the sound because it also happens under these other conditions...if that makes sense. Could it be the actual bushing in the sway bar? They seem fine visually. Engine mount? I'd go ahead and try changing both... Not expensive and all rubber degrades over time. Sent from my moto g(6) using Tapatalk