QUESTION ID: 1628

QUESTION:
You all know how this works. Post when and where and pics if possible. I'll start... Yesterday, May 31 around 10'o clock on Highway 101 South. I was behind you,and then you changed lanes, and I passed you, and then you were behind me. When I was in front,I threw you a thumbs up. And I saw you throw two thumbs up. LOL. I took pics while driving and its pretty dam hard. That's why I was kinda weaving #-o Pics:

ANSWER 1 (id: 1628_0):
I don't know if its anyone on this board but I saw atleast 6 e30's in Upper Arlington yesterday. They were everywhere! Also I saw someone last saturday, by Casino Winsor. White with euro look, very wide rims with probably stretched tires. Looked badass too. Anyone?

ANSWER 2 (id: 1628_11):
E30s here in the Dallas Metroplex area are extremely rare. Makes riding around in one feel much nicer and people look more. I can't wait to drop mine and add the 17"s. It's so rare that when I do happen upon someone in an E30 we both automatically give each other the "what's up, I see you in that E30 bro" nod.....

ANSWER 3 (id: 1628_2):
ha they're are hardly any where i'm from. I saw a red '87 325iS the other day. Looked all original except it was missing the front airdam. There's a few convertibles out for the summer and that's all I know of. It makes my car look that much more unique and really turns heads :)

ANSWER 4 (id: 1628_3):
Originally posted by delatlanta1281 maplights! DAMMIT LoL got it for a steal too. Picked it up for 20 bucks;) along with an is spoiler for a dollar.Sold the spoiler for a pretty penny too.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1628_5):
Originally posted by Eurospeed Totally OT, but Mastcruse, that is one seriously chopped up, butchered-ass version of my logo you've got as your sig there. correction - that is bendashdash's take on your logo that has now been butched in MSpaint :D

ANSWER 6 (id: 1628_6):
Originally posted by DarkWing6 correction - that is bendashdash's take on your logo that has now been butched in MSpaint :D I know he didn't do the original, I was just commenting that it looks horrible.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1628_9):
Originally posted by Eurospeed Totally OT, but Mastcruse, that is one seriously chopped up, butchered-ass version of my logo you've got as your sig there. Haha, I know it looks terrible. Paint isn't the best and I am worse using it. I just cut the top off of the logo and put it as a suggestion as something on the R3V t-shirts and had way too much time so I colored it red.