QUESTION ID: 803

QUESTION:
If you need ANYTHING air ride related. please contact Andrew Marsteller. He is the owner of ORT Motorsport https://www.openroadtuning.com ORT Motorsport is owned and operated BY enthusiasts FOR enthusiasts. Founded on our passion for European/German cars – we carry everything from OEM and aftermarket Performance engine parts to wheels, custom suspension and accessories for your Volkswagen, Audi, BMW, MINI, Porsche, Mercedes-Benz and more. You can contact him at Andrew@openroadtuning.com Most people have asked me how to install or how I installed the rear air bag on my e30. I took a bunch of photos a while back and just came across them today so I figure I would load them and share. These photos are pretty much self explanatory. I will add info later on tonight to explain what I did. I also have photos of the front install for airlift struts.

ANSWER 1 (id: 803_1):
Now onto the front install. This is the parts you will get in the front air lift kit. The round plates is what will replace your upper strut mounts. I had pieces machined to be able to use ground control camber plates with mine. These are the pieces that you are starting with. Start with a stock front strut. Clean the paint off the bottom of the strut tube and measure where you want to cut it for your aird out height. and cut. Then you weld on the new tube that comes with the air bag. Now take your shock. install it in the tube and weld. Go slow, take your time. use a wet rag to cool it down while welding in sections. install air bag. Paint your choice of color.

ANSWER 2 (id: 803_4):
Nice write up. I am yet to even think about getting the air in, or motor, or interior lol. Hectic last half a year. Hope to be settling down in the next few months and finally get all this shit out of my closet. How's the airlift stuff holding up by the way?

ANSWER 3 (id: 803_5):
I actually pulled it all off and sold it like a week or so after h20 in preps for moving to orlando and having a good DD. But for the time I had it on I loved the ride. This chick bought it all. http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/showthread.php?t=233520 BTW, if you want super low like above. You need to chop the strut tube down to the knuckle and pretty much weld the shock directly on that. but still use the tube supplied for added support.

ANSWER 4 (id: 803_7):
You have so many tanks, comps, valves, management setups to choose from that it all depends on what you go with. You can do as cheap as 1000.00 or as much as 4000.00

ANSWER 5 (id: 803_8):
I was always intrigued with the idea of airride. I remember HorsepowerTV installing bags on a 4th gen Camaro and tuning it for handling. I'm guessing these are more for that stanced out look?