QUESTION ID: 3323

QUESTION:
Pardon Our Interruption... https://www.ebay.com/itm/151808318813 It says lemforder but I don't know if it can be trusted, I've read about a few people buying Meyle and getting Chinese junk. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 3323_1):
B-rad, are you talking about the guy who posted here after his son's car had a suspension failure and was totaled? The product used on that car is not what OP linked to. I think a single Lemforder control arm is about $120. I'm slightly weary of that ebay ad because of the listed price, but otherwise, I don't see any huge red flags.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3323_10):
Originally posted by dude8383 i can get febi/bilstein arms for $80 per if you're still shopping around :up: It's all good I just finished up at check out, thanks anyways Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 3323_11):
+1 for partscontainer...I bought control arms from him and they came in sealed poly bags with the Lemfoerder name and logo on them. My only concern is the listing above had Lemfoerder misspelled as Lemforder. I checked my invoice from partscontainer from last May and he spelled it correctly then.

ANSWER 4 (id: 3323_12):
Ether-D bought ball joints from this seller which were advertised as one brand (Lemfoerder IIRC) yet he received something else. The seller issued a partial refund when challenged on it.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3323_2):
Originally posted by rturbo 930 B-rad, are you talking about the guy who posted here after his son's car had a suspension failure and was totaled? The product used on that car is not what OP linked to. I think a single Lemforder control arm is about $120. I'm slightly weary of that ebay ad because of the listed price, but otherwise, I don't see any huge red flags. I remember that post, it was the super cheap eBay special like 8 piece rebuild kit for $160 Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 3323_4):
The price is within several dollars of known Lemforder parts from FCP/Autohaus, so why not just shop there and not take the chance. Also, LEM control arm assys are not $120, more like $85-90 at most retailers.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3323_6):
personally, i would never buy new e30 chassis parts from eBay. there are just way too many fakes. don't be lulled by the price. a number similar to oem may just mean you are more easily fooled. the Chinese make copies of everything. buying used parts from a junk yard seems like a safer bet to me.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3323_7):
I had a Lemforder large Guibo on hand but needed a small one which I bought from Amazon. It was offered as "OEM made in Germany by SGF"(who makes virtually all OE flex couplings. The one I had had SGF markings so it made sense even at the very low price. I sent pics to SGF who told me they didn't make the one from Amazon and after searching the seller I found that he was on record as having imported from China. same product is still offered on Amazon but with a different seller name. Caveat emptor