QUESTION ID: 3627

QUESTION:
DISCLAIMER: I don't claim these to be original at all! Just an idea. My hope is that someone would take it and run with it. I know there are a few web devs on here - or students looking for a project. And feel free to tell me if these are awful ideas for a online app? Ad supported of course - no reason you should be paid well for your work. I don't do app stuff - so no clue how much work it would take to pull off. And most likely you may have already thought of it, and why it would or would not work. No skin off my back - just throwing this out there, for someone to grab....So if you tell me I'm silly - no problem. It's all good. :D Again - just putting this out there to the wind. Idea #1: Searchable picture database of e30's(that you could later expand to other BMW's - and other makes and models) Anyways...so for e30's to start with...You can go on the site - and upload your e30 pics, tag you car with your specs(wheels, 2/4 door, early/late, body color, suspension, motor, etc...) Then...if you want to see what a red e30 looks like with a mt2 and 16 bbs RS rims - you can search for just that. You put that in the search terms, and bot-a-bing-....all the pics of that car with that combo comes up. Or...Want to know what your car would look like with XYZ spring drop...you can search of that too. Legality of the pics might be a sticking point. But that doesn't seem to stop most car blogs. Idea #2 Comes from this thread. http://www.r3vlimited.com/board/show...73#post4285573 Basically a web version of this... Originally posted by Nick_S It was pretty refreshing that everywhere I went, fellow BMW people were so eager to help someone out. I hope someday I can return the favor. Originally posted by george graves I'm not sure if it's this way anymore.... But it use to be that if you joined the BMWCCA, you could get a little, multi-page, totally amateur-ish printed booklet of BMW enthusiasts in every state to call if you get really stuck on a road trip. Use to have one in my e21(never needed it - that car was AWESOME!) Anyways....Some were BMW shops - others just guys that would be willing to drop what they were doing to help a traveling BBWCCA member out. It wasn't there to call for help cause your doing a motor swap - it was just for emergencies when out of state. Like "my motor mount broke, anyone have a used one or something that I can limp along with till I get home???? I'm stuck at the gas-and-sip!" It would be awesome if some web designer on here would take up the task of making an online, cell phone accessible list like that. I for one would be glad if anyone was in my neck of the woods and needed help on the side of the road to either lend a hand, or give parts to get them going again. Sign me up for that. Cause that would be an awesome list.

ANSWER 1 (id: 3627_0):
sounds like something the help network would be easy to do on r3v. someone compile a list of names locations and numbers. preferebly someone with access to printing and make a little "black" book of it. small fee to cover printing and BOOM!!! ive actually thought about the searchable picture database for years but for average everyday things though. certain treees, cars, items in general just about everything.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3627_1):
I would not be opposed to helping someone on the side of the road like stated above. I have done it a few times by chance, never a BMW though. And a searchable data base would be good for those looking to compare certain things, ar in search of paticular parts.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3627_10):
I like the idea of #2... have the database online, and also sell small book copies for the glovebox.... maybe with a cover design like the stock manuals with a r3v logo --Mike

ANSWER 4 (id: 3627_11):
Originally posted by 15Michaeljoseph I like the idea of #2... have the database online, and also sell small book copies for the glovebox.... maybe with a cover design like the stock manuals with a r3v logo --Mike BOOM. Except with the pertinent info above.

ANSWER 5 (id: 3627_4):
Please steal this idea Take all the shit out of the wheel/tire fitment thread and build fitmet tool that is similar in look/feel to the way RealOEM determines what production code your car is. Highest level Year (83-93) Model (325, 325e, 325i, 325is, 325ix, M3, 318, 318is, etc...) Springs (stock, m3, h&r sport, h&r race, tokico, etc..... just something to determine drop) Wheel size Wheel offset tire size result - does it fit (yes, yes with roll, no) Could also include various 5 lug set ups. I love the info in that thread, but fucking hate digging through 500 pages of shit.

ANSWER 6 (id: 3627_5):
Theres is an app out there that is sorta kinda in the ballpark of what your talking about. Its called snupps. I ran across it and added my cars to it. Its for basically any materialistic item that you want to show off on your profile. And you can put info in on each item that is hidden to the public like purchase price etc... Not exactly what your looking for. But interesting.

ANSWER 7 (id: 3627_6):
There is also www.rimtuck.com http://www.desmoduck.com/ This is my little project right now, and it's almost done. I'd be open to working on something for BMWs next.

ANSWER 8 (id: 3627_7):
Originally posted by frolf Please steal this idea Take all the shit out of the wheel/tire fitment thread and build fitmet tool that is similar in look/feel to the way RealOEM determines what production code your car is. Highest level Year (83-93) Model (325, 325e, 325i, 325is, 325ix, M3, 318, 318is, etc...) Springs (stock, m3, h&r sport, h&r race, tokico, etc..... just something to determine drop) Wheel size Wheel offset tire size result - does it fit (yes, yes with roll, no) Could also include various 5 lug set ups. I love the info in that thread, but fucking hate digging through 500 pages of shit. You know your current setup and with 5 minutes worth of measuring know how much room for tyres you have in whatever direction. If you lower your car by 10mm or change offset by same amount, of increase tyre diameter by, say 10mm.. Is it really beyond you to calculate whether something scrapes or not? Would you buy parts because some in the internet says "sure it'll work" without seeing your car?