QUESTION ID: 3242

QUESTION:
Would anyone be interested in door panel deletes? I noticed someone once made them but no longer does so I designed a set for my car (86 2dr e30) and can have more made. They are CNC cut from .060 ABS and can easily be painted any color (primer, paint). I have a request for quote out on aluminum panels and could possibly offer those as well (.040). They can be attached with either self tapping screws or velcro and any arrangement of pull handles could work. Personally, I am going to sew up Nylon strap and use it for a pull handle. The original door handle trim fits as well as the plug for the window roll up. I have the 2dr design done and if there was enough interest I could work on a 4dr design, e36, as well as kicker panels....etc. Right now the 2dr design fits inside the lines of the door. I can do a full panel as well (about have the design done). Background: Two partners and I started a company designing and making car parts, we have started out small and are trying to get a few things to market while we work on the bigger projects. So far everything we have made has been from necessity for our own vehicles. Thoughts, feedback,..... (ignore the extra hole in the bottom corner, those won't be there)

ANSWER 1 (id: 3242_0):
People have made door panel deletes like this one. All Im going to say is, remember that r3vlimited members are cheap as hell so unless you can provide it at a decent price, you wont get a lot of actual interest. They look decent in your pictures though.

ANSWER 2 (id: 3242_1):
Originally posted by jhaurimn r3vlimited members are cheap as hell so... ...if it's more than $50/pair it's unlikely to take off. Perhaps if you brought a different design to the table, some additional features, or a more complete system (handle, lock knob, bezels) it would be more likely to be a lasting product.

ANSWER 3 (id: 3242_2):
Originally posted by Kershaw Pics installed? Not yet, I have test fit them but nothing installed. My car is still in pieces and I need to clean/paint the doors before I install the panels Originally posted by roguetoaster ...if it's more than $50/pair it's unlikely to take off. Perhaps if you brought a different design to the table, some additional features, or a more complete system (handle, lock knob, bezels) it would be more likely to be a lasting product. Different design as in? Not sure I follow. There are only so many ways to make a delete panel. I'll look into making it more complete with hardware and handles. I was trying to leave it basic so people could use a grab handle from the headliner or a nylon strap. I also didn't include mounting holes because i have seen some racers attach with velcro for quick removal. As for pricing, haven't settled on one yet but they would be more than $50/pair as setup and material cost is more than that. Thanks for the feedback guys. This is exactly why I posted up seeking interest, to get feedback.