QUESTION ID: 1124

QUESTION:
Hey guys, So I just got one of JedM3's air boxes and am now looking into piggy back engine managements. I know a lot of guys use the MAXX Alpha N EMS but I dont like how its limited and makes assumptions on air density. From what I understand there is no compensation for air density so driving in different climates can greatly affect the tune. This is the reason why I have been looking into alternatives. I see KMS offers their FA23 which is a fuel only EMS. The only thing I dont like is that for $800 you still cant control timing which should unleash a decent amount of HP. I stumbled upon the Unichip Q solution which seems more appealing due to control (fuel + timing) and cost ( ~$300). I see a lot of guys on s14.net have used it but the threads are old and said only Unichip tuners can use the software ( This appears to not be the case anymore as unichip has the software on their site for ~$30). What I am looking for are recommendations on a good(fuel+timing) piggy back EMS that wont break the bank. I'd like to spend less than $1,000 which is why the unichip has my attention. Please state what EMS you recommend, why and also thoughts on the unichip. thanks! Josh

ANSWER 1 (id: 1124_0):
Actually, Maxx has an air temp sensor as well along with wideband closed loop capability. Stock dme still uses the barometric sensor as well. Stand alone ecu can be had cheap but there are other factors that may make it undesirable for a street car. Cost is a factor so choose what's best for you.

ANSWER 2 (id: 1124_1):
Originally posted by reelizmpro Actually, Maxx has an air temp sensor as well along with wideband closed loop capability. Stock dme still uses the barometric sensor as well. Stand alone ecu can be had cheap but there are other factors that may make it undesirable for a street car. Cost is a factor so choose what's best for you. thanks for the reply! Hmm so I must have been wrong. With the temp & barometric sensors, the system should have no issue compensating for the air density. I have been reading that having control over timing will yield better drive-ability and make more usable power throughout the rpm's.

ANSWER 3 (id: 1124_10):
You want the Maxx AN Plus. All the new units sold now support wideband closed loop. Older units need to be upgraded. Keep that in mind if you are buying used.

ANSWER 4 (id: 1124_11):
Originally posted by reelizmpro You want the Maxx AN Plus. All the new units sold now support wideband closed loop. Older units need to be upgraded. Keep that in mind if you are buying used. Will do. Thanks for the reminder!

ANSWER 5 (id: 1124_2):
There's also PnP megasquirt that will give you control of ignition/fuel but I don't know if there's a closed loop option available for it. Also, you will lose your OBC functions. Standalones use Alpha N, air temp but some also use MAP as an input. People have complained about getting a clean MAP reading on the S14 due to the ITB's. I don't know first hand but it's what I have heard throughout the years.

ANSWER 6 (id: 1124_3):
I ended up buying a used KMS FA23 fuel only piggyback from an s14 member for $150. I figure I cant lose at that price. I dont plan on doing anything else to this motor for the time being other than a turner chip so I should be set. thanks for the help and feel free to comment based on my plans. I could use guidance if there is a better chip or route you think.

ANSWER 7 (id: 1124_4):
Chip Do not use the Turner/Conforti chip, there is a strong possibility of pinging, do a search on S14.net for Luis, his chips are currently the best and he can burn custom chips as you add modifications

ANSWER 8 (id: 1124_5):
Originally posted by cdeason Do not use the Turner/Conforti chip, there is a strong possibility of pinging, do a search on S14.net for Luis, his chips are currently the best and he can burn custom chips as you add modifications Good call. Thanks for the heads up. Will definitely get one from Luis.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1124_6):
We (miller performance) have just come out with the first true alpha N system for the M3 which is 100% ecu controlled with NO piggybacks and allows you full control over your fuel and ignition timing, rpm limits etc etc. We will also be in LA for bimmerfest and can install and fine Tune it if you are interested.

ANSWER 10 (id: 1124_7):
Originally posted by brody We (miller performance) have just come out with the first true alpha N system for the M3 which is 100% ecu controlled with NO piggybacks and allows you full control over your fuel and ignition timing, rpm limits etc etc. We will also be in LA for bimmerfest and can install and fine Tune it if you are interested. Thanks for the reply. Can you link me to a more in depth description of how this is achieved, pricing, and is it reversible ? I'll be tracking my e46 m3 at Bimmerfest and could bring my e30 m3 ecu.

ANSWER 11 (id: 1124_8):
Alpha-N I encourage you to do a very thorough research on vendors before spending any money and never buy the first version of any product. MAXX Alpha-N has been around for a long time (yes mostly in Europe) but there are users in the US and Martin at MAXX responds quickly via email. The system is reversible.

ANSWER 12 (id: 1124_9):
i have done some research and agree. It looks like the Maxx is the best way to go especially with the closed loop WBO2. Im sold. thanks for the help guys! -Josh PS. I have a KMS FA23 fuel piggyback for sale if anyone is interested. Ill let it go for cheap. It retails for ~$750 and sold by VAC motorsports.