QUESTION ID: 2262

QUESTION:
Hey guys, I recently built a pair of custom metal/wood roof racks designed specifically for BMW 2002's and E30's. You may have seen these on Facebook or Instagram, but I figured I'd post on here as well. I spent a ton of time designing these and am happy with how they turned out. I originally had planned to produce these, but decided not to pursue these further for now. I created my own adjustable gutter mount system which allows interchangeability between the 2002 and E30 platform (and possibly other models and makes of cars). Achieving a super low profile aesthetic while maintaining functionality was my main goal. These are incredibly sturdy and don't cause as much wind noise as you'd think. There are gaps between the wood and metal for wind to pass through to minimize upward lift and howling. A lot of thought went into how everything flows together and I did my best to hide as many welds as possible. The silver one is sold, but the black is still for sale. Unfortunately I can't offer these as cheap as I'd like to, but if you're interested, you can view the ad on my Etsy store which is at www.Etsy.com/Shop/MikeyGaumann Hope you enjoy! Would love to hear some feedback

ANSWER 1 (id: 2262_10):
Sorry to hijack a two year old thread, I have a few questions for you. First off, it's evident that you put an insane amount of time and thought into this design/build. They're truly beautiful! Any chance of seeing some pics of a rack on the E30? Maybe even with a bike hooked up to it? Basically, I'm looking for a suggestion or two from the problem solving MacGyver of E30 roof rack world.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2262_3):
Two comments... 1) No way to lock them? 2) It might be a good idea to coat the drip rail mount in rubber or something to protect the paint on the car. They look nice though. I think the black frame might look better with a lighter wood for more contrast. The silver frame with dark wood looks great.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2262_4):
I only have two E30s in my long term plans, and while I don't think one of these would suit the M3, it might look amazing on my girl's touring. :D What would you estimate the load rating of this roof rack to be? Would you consider making another one that's longer and better suited to the proportions of the touring's long roof, or are they just too complicated to build to make it worthwhile to sell them?

ANSWER 4 (id: 2262_5):
Originally posted by tak7 Things of beauty Originally posted by Gregs///M That's an amazing rack! Added you on IG. Originally posted by Nick_S good lord man, those look fantastic. Originally posted by no rice looks pretty sweet! Originally posted by plotfi Fantastic...wish it was a little more affordable! Thanks guys! Originally posted by rturbo 930 Two comments... 1) No way to lock them? 2) It might be a good idea to coat the drip rail mount in rubber or something to protect the paint on the car. They look nice though. I think the black frame might look better with a lighter wood for more contrast. The silver frame with dark wood looks great. Yeah there is no way to lock these up, you could replace the main bolt with a security bolt with a unique style head but that wouldn't be too much protection. I would definitely suggest putting a strip of thin rubber in between the drip rail and the mount. Originally posted by Shock(/\)ave I only have two E30s in my long term plans, and while I don't think one of these would suit the M3, it might look amazing on my girl's touring. :D What would you estimate the load rating of this roof rack to be? Would you consider making another one that's longer and better suited to the proportions of the touring's long roof, or are they just too complicated to build to make it worthwhile to sell them? Thanks for the request but I am not really looking to build more at this time. I did get another order for the silver one pictured but I think I'm going to stop it there. There is a lot of work involved and I have several other projects going on in the shop right now. I will let you know if I ever consider building a longer one though, I'd love to see one of these on a touring! These could easily handle 200lbs Originally posted by aintnothang Thats a work of art. Thank you!

ANSWER 5 (id: 2262_7):
Possibly a dumb question but would ever consider outsourcing the design and doing a large run of these? They are seriously one of the best looking racks I've ever seen.

ANSWER 6 (id: 2262_9):
Originally posted by binnavert NICE RACK!!! sorry couldn't help myself.;D haha thanks! Originally posted by Nick_S Possibly a dumb question but would ever consider outsourcing the design and doing a large run of these? They are seriously one of the best looking racks I've ever seen. Thanks man. I probably won't outsource these, but I'm debating doing a minor redesign for the future that will hopefully make these a little easier and faster to build. We'll see what happens, for right now I just don't really like the idea of having China recreate my work, even though I know it could be good money. Originally posted by austinwaller21 ^^ I'd definitely buy one. They look sooo good. Thanks dude