QUESTION ID: 507

QUESTION:
Hi guys, Over the past few weeks I have been developing a standalone gauge that replaces the onboard computer and provides a retro styed bar graph of two or three sensors on a 2.8" touch screen LCD display. Currently, the touch screen is not in use but as this will eventually be an open source project IF THERE IS INTEREST, anybody can create the code needed to display information and create menus within the gauge. This is the first prototype unit, powered by an Arduino Nano in a 3d printed enclosure. This unit is set up to measure battery voltage, oil temp, and boost pressure using the integrated MPX style MAP sensor. This unit will be going into my personal car. I am sharing this to gather interest in the project, and if a few people are interested in purchasing a unit, I will go ahead and invest more time into creating a universal product to be shipped out. However, I need two or three people that are seriously interested in buying a unit to go ahead and create a product fit for market. Some details below: What you get with the gauge, if people show interest - - One gauge pod - Flash drive with the exact code installed in your unit, commented for ease of tweaking. From reconfiguring gauges, or simple things like changing the green bars to red, or to any color you want. The code I use is super simple, and I can walk through it with you for modification and improvements - A datasheet, with everything you could want to know about what you bought, and how it was made, including a FULL wiring diagram and schematic for potential repairs - A warranty against production defects and repairs. If you fry something and admit it, I'll still be happy to work with you when it comes to getting it fixed. - If you choose to use specific sensors that don't come with the car, they will be provided to you at cost (no markup from what I pay for them) as long as I can use them for gathering data (voltage or resistance outputs) needed to create the code for you. Then you will receive the sensor with your display calibrated to it. If you are interested in supporting the project, please send me a personal message with some details on what sensors you would like. If two or three people want to buy a unit, I will begin to produce these. Sale price will be between $100 and $200 depending on what sensors and gauges you would like. If you are unsure of what could be included in your unit, feel free to contact me with your questions. Thanks for checking out the project!

ANSWER 1 (id: 507_0):
That's a great idea! Perhaps a real coolant temperature readout would be useful for regular users. Also, a scale on the graph is useful. Even better, a color matched home screen that mimics the clock/temp/MPG readouts.

ANSWER 2 (id: 507_2):
Originally posted by roguetoaster That's a great idea! Perhaps a real coolant temperature readout would be useful for regular users. Also, a scale on the graph is useful. Even better, a color matched home screen that mimics the clock/temp/MPG readouts. Can definitely run coolant temp. Not sure if you'd want to run AFR because of the slow response rate (from overhead of the libraries needed to run the display) of but it can absolutely be done with a 0-5v input. It'll be well within a second, but you'll miss small changes in AFR. A graph can be done, I just chose not to for mine.

ANSWER 3 (id: 507_3):
Alright guys. I think I will make a prototype run of three units. After that, I might make a V2 with a different screen. One step at a time. Send me a message if you're serious and would like to go forward with configuring a unit. Also, working on a new back panel. More slim MAP sensor integration, and the inputs will have threaded studs on the back for easy connection.

ANSWER 4 (id: 507_4):
I've always wanted to replace the check light panel with something like this as well. Start off as just a digital display that functions the same as the check light panel, then integrate more features as time goes on. I'd love to get a backup camera up there. IDK about the actual practicality of that solution, but there's something aesthetically pleasing to me about having to look up for the rearview.

ANSWER 5 (id: 507_5):
Very cool. I would be interested in one of those for oil pressure, temp, coolant temp. Are the components bog standard or high temperature/severe duty?

ANSWER 6 (id: 507_7):
Originally posted by varg Very cool. I would be interested in one of those for oil pressure, temp, coolant temp. Are the components bog standard or high temperature/severe duty? Hey Varg, I have not figured out a budget solution to the oil pressure sensor yet, but some of the import generic transducers may be ordered for testing on my personal car. VDO sending units may work, but they're a bit pricy to order and find out it wont work. I am taking suggestions here for this one. Temp sensors (oil, coolant, intake temps) would be handled using GM temp sensors of BMW brown sensors, unless other sensors are desired for use depending on application. All sensors would be meant for the job.