QUESTION ID: 346

QUESTION:
Ok, I've been spending the last few days researching suspension, i've pretty much decided on what shocks and springs I'll be getting. However, when I do this work, I want to replace a lot more at the same time... (by the way - I'll be overhauling brakes at the same time) I've decided that I'll be getting Koni SA's with IE Stage 3 springs. I wanted some asistance on figuring out what else to get, and where to buy from. Here's what I'd like to do: - Aluminum control arms (Question: how much do these run? Where should I buy from?) - Replace ALL bushings, and I mean all. (Question: What are all the bushings I should replace beside subframe bushings? What upgrades are available?) - New Rear Shock Mounts (I'm thinking either E46 cabrio or GC Mounts?) - Sway bars - What are my options - should the sway bar mounts be reinforced? - Rear strut bar - I'm thinking of getting IE Rear Strut bar? I know adding this all up won't be cheap, but I'm basically looking for pointers on waht to buy, and where to look. I haven't really got the slightest clue on anything but shocks and springs so far. Bushings, I'm not sure how much there is to replace and whatnot. I'm not sure how soon I'll be able to buy all this, but I basically want to compile a list so I know how much I need, and then I can work from there! :D Thanks in advance!!

ANSWER 1 (id: 346_0):
www.bmaparts.com will pricematch any retailer. What are you reasons for wanting to go with the alum. control arms? They're roughly twice the price of the stock ones. Go with Lemfoerder for your suspension components. I'd also recommend changing the tie-rods while you have everything out (motormounts would be easy too). Replace the rear subframe bushings, trailing arm bushings, and control arm bushings. If you plan on tracking the car go with urethane. Rears from IE, fronts from Treehouse. Get new upper strut bearings (SKF) also. A cheap swaybar upgrade would be the cabrio front and m3 rear bars. They're the largest OE bars and can be had for a fraction of the cost of IE or equivalent ones. If you're going to use a beefy bar in the rear, definitely reinforce the trailing arm tabs. Also get brand new swaybar hardware.

ANSWER 2 (id: 346_1):
if you need any help with the work, i just did all of that shit to my car, and devised a few tools to get pesky things such as subframe bushings and trailing arm bushings out. We can talk saturday when you pick up the exhaust. -Addis

ANSWER 3 (id: 346_10):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by M42Tecknik OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) You paid some one to install the tie-rods? ...ouch I paid $84 for my pair of Lemfoerder rods. I didn't mention that was with the front alignment too when it was done. I got the Koni's off Ebay.de new but out of box. Sold the springs they came with for some cash back, came to that price. The GC was a group buy on Bimmerforums that ended as of January 1st this year. RTRS is a company that sells bushings at www.bmwbushings.com where I got all those parts listed. I did not get new control arms because they are fine and do not need to be replaced yet. I will probably do it sometime, but not priority like the other two things I need to have all the parts ready for my overhaul.

ANSWER 4 (id: 346_11):
Originally posted by Sean Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by M42Tecknik OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) You paid some one to install the tie-rods? ...ouch I paid $84 for my pair of Lemfoerder rods. Where can those be purchased, Ken? Somewehre like BMA? Yeah, Patrick sold them to me for $42 each (the Lemfoerder ones).

ANSWER 5 (id: 346_12):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by Sean Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by M42Tecknik OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) You paid some one to install the tie-rods? ...ouch I paid $84 for my pair of Lemfoerder rods. Where can those be purchased, Ken? Somewehre like BMA? Yeah, Patrick sold them to me for $42 each (the Lemfoerder ones). Yeah, I was about to say...

ANSWER 6 (id: 346_13):
I've been looking at front shock mounts, and the like, and I'm trying to figure something things out. If I lower the car using IE Stg3 springs and Koni SAs - will I need Ground Control front camber plates to keep a good amount of shock travel? The way I'm understanding it, is the GC Camber Plates completely replace the OEM Front Strut Mounts. If that's the case, are there any other options to keep a good amount of shock travel? Also - I found these on ebay: http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll...hippingPayment To me, it looks as if the front struts are already in a housing? is this a good way to go? Then I could just sell whatever springs those are. Lastly, I'm trying to decide between three different subframe options: IE Race Urethane Subframe Bushings IE Urethane Subframe Bushings RTRS Subframe Bushings Are they all pretty much the same? Which one would be the best? Thanks guys! :D

ANSWER 7 (id: 346_3):
I'd very much reconsider getting the regular old Control Arms. Like Ken said, with that stiffer suspension, get new Strut Hats and Rear Shock Mounts. Also, tie rods are a great idea, it's something to do while you're in there (remember new lock washers!). BMA has everything you could want for OEM stuff. Treehouse is where I would get the new CABs, but I did get mine from www.bmwbushings.com. Turner Motor Sport also has a great kit for the mounts (strut hat, etc.) for just a touch under 150.

ANSWER 8 (id: 346_4):
I just did all this. Huge improvement on an already well maintained car. I stayed away from the M3 arms for one reason, they dont show an opening for the swaybar mount meaning i would have to have a reciever welded in for the M3 style on the strut mount. I may still do this someday but not today. Im still on the fence. They are light as hell and I can have solid joints pressed in but at $260 vs. $80 is also a key selling point.

ANSWER 9 (id: 346_5):
Wow guys! This information has been invaluabe!! THANKS! I will spend some time when I get a chance finding exactly what I'm going to buy, and then list it here. You bring up a good point about control arms - it was something I was thinking of doing. But, if its going to cost that much, I'm sure I can easily pass. If anyone else has anything else to add, don't hesitate to do so! Thanks again! :D

ANSWER 10 (id: 346_6):
My suspension revamp list: Ground Control coilovers 325/475 rates, 6" springs. ($345 for me) Koni Adjustable shocks (S/A's). ($350 for me) RTRS urethane offset lower Control arm bushings. ($90/pair) RTRS urethane subframe bushings. ($95/pair) Ireland Engineering Rear Shock Mounts. ($90) Ireland Engineering Urethane Rear Trailing arms. ($52) OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) GC Camber plates. ($270) To come: OEM Skidplate. ($180) All those bushings above are worth it. However, the IE RSM's are just as good, if not minimally better than GC ones. Think about tie rods as most are busted. The skidplate is optional but it helps, and there's a group buy on custom made ones here...I would tell you to get the GC camber plates for maximum suspension travel, however... http://e30m3performance.com/installs...p/GC_susp3.htm There you go.

ANSWER 11 (id: 346_7):
Originally posted by M42Tecknik My suspension revamp list: Ground Control coilovers 325/475 rates, 6" springs. ($345 for me) Koni Adjustable shocks (S/A's). ($350 for me) RTRS urethane offset lower Control arm bushings. ($90/pair) RTRS urethane subframe bushings. ($95/pair) Ireland Engineering Rear Shock Mounts. ($90) Ireland Engineering Urethane Rear Trailing arms. ($52) OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) How did you get such good deals on Koni SAs and GC Coilovers?? Group buy, used?? Also, RTRS - what does that stand for? And, where could those be purchased. Also, did you not get new front control arms? I didn't see them in your list.

ANSWER 12 (id: 346_8):
Originally posted by M42Tecknik OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) You paid some one to install the tie-rods? ...ouch I paid $84 for my pair of Lemfoerder rods.

ANSWER 13 (id: 346_9):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by M42Tecknik OEM Tie rods, inner, outer, and ends. ($180 installed) You paid some one to install the tie-rods? ...ouch I paid $84 for my pair of Lemfoerder rods. Where can those be purchased, Ken? Somewehre like BMA?