QUESTION ID: 2285

QUESTION:
Howdy Y'all Been having an issue with my Turbo M20. car runs great up until about 16-17 PSI. Once it gets there, it develops a sort of hesitation. I'm not sure if it's spark blowout or what. It just sputters and seems to just lose power. I'm running on waste gate spring with a turbo smart manual boost controller. Brand new spark plug wires, cap and rotor, and CPS have about 5k miles. Plugs are NGK BPR8ES gapped to .018 which I replaced last week. Just yesterday I swapped out my 5k mile oem Bosch coil with a Holley Sniper EFI (equivalent to a MSD Blaster) which didn't help. Today I disconnected the MBC and ran off the 15lb waste gate spring, which still didn't help. now here's the weird thing. When I put the fresh set of plugs in last week, car seemed to run fine for a few redline, full boost runs, but after that, issue reoccured again. I'm at a loss and any help would be appreciated! Overboost Protection is set at 235 kPA. Hysteresis is set at 10. So I doubt its hitting boost cut. I tried attaching the datalog files directly here, but for some reason, it says I'm not allowed to upload that file type. So I've uploaded them on google drive. I had the boost controller connected at the time of these datalogs. Only thing I can notice on the datalogs that seem odd to ME are, the MapDot fluctuates heavily when the stutter happens. Also Decel Enrichment kicks on for a second. 3rd Gear Pull https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bud.../view?ths=true 4th Gear Pull https://drive.google.com/file/d/1W1y.../view?ths=true Freeway Entrance https://drive.google.com/file/d/1p8S.../view?ths=true

ANSWER 1 (id: 2285_0):
Were the old spark plugs the same heat range? Do you still have them sitting around so you can throw them back in and test? If you changed spark plugs and then a new problem starts, it's the spark plugs. Get the exact same type as the old plugs and gap them the exact same as well.

ANSWER 2 (id: 2285_1):
I had some time tonight. So I connected the laptop and went out for a drive. Started messing around with dwell time since it wasn’t changed even when I changed to a different coil. Dwell time was set at 3.5 with the original Bosch coil. I tried going down to 3.0, which made the sputter worse. Went up to 4.0, sputtering was much less. Finally at 4.5 milliseconds, no more sputtering! This might be a bandaid to the weak single coil, ignition system in an E30, but it’ll have to do for now until I go to a wasted spark setup. Hope this helps someone out there. thanks a lot for trying to help.

ANSWER 3 (id: 2285_2):
I have a different thing to check: what's the total resistance of your secondary ignition voltage path? You're using resistance plugs- do you have resistance wires and a resistance rotor? I have had several different 'loses spark under full load' problems caused by a 5k plug, 15k wires, 5k rotor, 10k primary wire additive resistance. Every time, lowering the system resistance (1k rotor, low drop wires, non- resistor plugs) has comprehensively solved the problem. I can only imagine it'd be worse under boost. Just something to rule out, as adding dwell's raising the coil potential.... ....which might be compensating for system loss. t a bad cap and rotor can do it, too!