QUESTION ID: 1370

QUESTION:
Hi guys, The vinyl on my top storage compartment came torn. I can’t seem to find a replacement so wanted to see if anyone has custom wrapped it or fixed it themselves? I would like to do a custom quilted dark brown or alcantara cloth job. Photo for reference (don’t mind the mark up) Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 1 (id: 1370_0):
I’ve seen them painted. There was a Ferrari red e30 vert that had the lid painted. I’ve thought about painting mine too for it to be different but I figured there’s no point if it’s in good shape. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 2 (id: 1370_1):
Vert top storage compartment repair Originally posted by DBShiznit I’ve seen them painted. There was a Ferrari red e30 vert that had the lid painted. I’ve thought about painting mine too for it to be different but I figured there’s no point if it’s in good shape. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk I believe mine is painted under there. Maybe I’ll just remove the vinyl and with without a cover Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 3 (id: 1370_10):
Originally posted by jeffnhiscars Alcantara, despite being auto grade, is totally not suitable for that kind of weather exposure. It's also $115/yd and supplied are limited since Alcantara cut off the after market. Yea I learned that the stuff I found was fake lol. Will be removing the cover when I get some time Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 4 (id: 1370_11):
Heres the good news re alcantara. The Japanese inventor of Ultrasuede which is the predecessor to Alcantara and owns part of it, has expanded its automotive offerings under the Ultrasuede brand. I've seen the samples since the US Distributor for Alcantara is loval to me and there are some very nice colors. As far as recovering the tonneau marine grade vinyl is a great option since it's durable as hell and has enough stretch to make it fit nicely.

ANSWER 5 (id: 1370_13):
Originally posted by robrez Anybody have full-car pics of a vert with a painted top storage compartment cover? Finally pulled the trigger and man does it look so good! Remove the chrome?! Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 6 (id: 1370_3):
hmm, removing the vinyl starting to sound enticing. Mine's bubbled up a bit but is otherwise in great shape. Is it hard to clean off whatever adhesive is under there? Does the chrome strip show much of a gap with the vinyl gone?

ANSWER 7 (id: 1370_5):
Vert top storage compartment repair Oooooo I’m so removing that ish this week!!! Was going to buy some alcantara cloth n do my own wrap job but I’ll just do without it. Sent from my iPhone using Tapatalk

ANSWER 8 (id: 1370_6):
They're painted underneath. I removed mine and was able to remove some off the adhesive myself. I ended up going to a local car wash and had them buff out the rest. Paid like $15 but was totally worth it. My car is black on black so it goes well with the gloss black trim. I got the idea from all the euro convertible owners, it seems to be a thing over there.

ANSWER 9 (id: 1370_7):
Originally posted by bobdavisnpf hmm, removing the vinyl starting to sound enticing. Mine's bubbled up a bit but is otherwise in great shape. Is it hard to clean off whatever adhesive is under there? Does the chrome strip show much of a gap with the vinyl gone? It does not!

ANSWER 10 (id: 1370_9):
Alcantara, despite being auto grade, is totally not suitable for that kind of weather exposure. It's also $115/yd and supplied are limited since Alcantara cut off the after market.