QUESTION ID: 376

QUESTION:
Wheel bearings? Have'tn jacked the car to wiggle the wheels, figured I'd ask before I bothered. Is the wiggle the only way to tell? Also, I'm putting the bilstein sports/eibachs in soon, should I get new wheel bearings and throw them in while I do it? Where are they cheapest and how much? Never installed bearings before...I assume they're fairly straightforward. Will I need/should I replace anything else while I swap the new springs/shocks? Don't want anything too serious, it's only a summer beater, but while I'm in there.... Thanks guys!

ANSWER 1 (id: 376_1):
Doing the bearings looks straightforward on paper, but in practice they can be a pain in the ass, especially the rears. I'd wait until they need to be done. Figre out which one is bad and just handle it.

ANSWER 2 (id: 376_10):
Originally posted by brodee Just buy new front hubs, they are only about $75/side. So I could just buy a new hub instead of replacing a wheel bearing?

ANSWER 3 (id: 376_11):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by brodee Just buy new front hubs, they are only about $75/side. So I could just buy a new hub instead of replacing a wheel bearing? Yep. Did this on my old 325.

ANSWER 4 (id: 376_12):
Originally posted by e30Matt Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by brodee Just buy new front hubs, they are only about $75/side. So I could just buy a new hub instead of replacing a wheel bearing? Yep. Did this on my old 325. Well shit, I'll just do that. It seems like it'd be 10x easier and it's only like $15 more LOL.

ANSWER 5 (id: 376_13):
Originally posted by kencopperwheat Originally posted by brodee Just buy new front hubs, they are only about $75/side. So I could just buy a new hub instead of replacing a wheel bearing? what if its the back?

ANSWER 6 (id: 376_2):
Originally posted by Koony Bad wheel bearings will produce a lot of heat. Feel for a hot wheel (near hub) or brake rotor after a long drive. Could this be related to that burning smell I keep getting? Hmm... PS - I have a good set on the parts car - I'm going to take the strut assemblies off, put the bilsteins and eibachs on them, and just swap them into the ES. Kill three birds with one stone :)

ANSWER 7 (id: 376_3):
Just buy new front hubs, they are only about $75/side. If you put ones on from a parts car you'll have to change them again soon. If it's a front wheel bearing making the noise then when you are driving you will hear a difference depending on which way you turn. i.e. if the passenger bearing is bad it will make more noise turning left and the noise will most likely disapear while turning right.

ANSWER 8 (id: 376_4):
I've got something on my car that almost sounds like a bad diff, but it's not constant whining. It's like a "Shh...shh....shh....shh...." intermitant, but varies on speed. If it's my diff i'm going to be hella pissed, supposed to be fine, and sounded fine out of the car.

ANSWER 9 (id: 376_6):
if its sounds like you are driving w/ mud tires and is speed related, your bearings are the cause. when my rear pax side bearing and half shaft were shot. it sounded like wub-wub-wub-wub-wub..... if its speed related its suspension if its rpm related its drivetrain

ANSWER 10 (id: 376_7):
Originally posted by BS87 I've got something on my car that almost sounds like a bad diff, but it's not constant whining. It's like a "Shh...shh....shh....shh...." intermitant, but varies on speed. If it's my diff i'm going to be hella pissed, supposed to be fine, and sounded fine out of the car. sounds like your brake dust cover.

ANSWER 11 (id: 376_8):
Originally posted by 92 mtechnic cabrio Originally posted by BS87 I've got something on my car that almost sounds like a bad diff, but it's not constant whining. It's like a "Shh...shh....shh....shh...." intermitant, but varies on speed. If it's my diff i'm going to be hella pissed, supposed to be fine, and sounded fine out of the car. sounds like your brake dust cover. The backing plate thing that the e-brake set springs(the ones you turn 90 degrees) go into?

ANSWER 12 (id: 376_9):
Originally posted by Dominick if its sounds like you are driving w/ mud tires and is speed related, your bearings are the cause. Couldn't have said it better myself - at higher speeds (over 35-40 or so) it sounds like I have mud tires on. I've got a few Jeeps, and that's how they sound with mud tires on too. PS - well aware of the speed/suspension; rpm/driveline method of troubleshooting :) That's why I first thought of the bearings.. Brodee, I'll have to check the turn situation out - but AFAIK they don't change in turning. And the parts car has brand new bearings - barely 2k miles on them, so I think these will be ok :) It's just going to be my track rat in a few months anyways...